{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\fswiss\fprq2\fcharset0 Arial;}}
\viewkind4\uc1\pard\nowidctlpar\fi432\f0\fs24 THE TOWER TREASURE\par
BY FRANKLIN W. DIXON\par
No. 1 in the Hardy Boys series.\par
This is the original 1927 text.\par
\par
This is the UC version, the roughest uncorrected in the series because of shoddy printing. See the proof list for the original text versions (and tiffs) of at least books 1 through 5.\par
\par
The Hardy Boys solve the theft of Hurd Applegate's treasure (not stamps!) by Red Jackley. The 1959 version is the same story, updated.\par
\par
The Hardy Boys series by Franklin W. Dixon, the first 58 titles.\par
The first year is the original year. The second is the year it was revised.\par
\par
01 The Tower Treasure 1927, 1959\par
02 The House on the Cliff 1927, 1959\par
03 The Secret of the Old Mill 1927, 1962\par
04 The Missing Chums 1927, 1962\par
05 Hunting for Hidden Gold 1928, 1963\par
06 The Shore Road Mystery 1928, 1964\par
07 The Secret of the Caves 1929, 1965\par
08 The Mystery of Cabin Island 1929, 1966\par
09 The Great Airport Mystery 1930, 1965\par
10 What Happened at Midnight 1931, 1967\par
11 While the Clock Ticked 1932, 1962\par
12 Footprints Under the Window 1933, 1962\par
13 The Mark on the Door 1934, 1967\par
14 The Hidden Harbor Mystery 1935, 1961\par
15 The Sinister Sign Post 1936, 1968\par
16 A Figure in Hiding 1937, 1965\par
17 The Secret Warning 1938, 1966\par
18 The Twisted Claw 1939, 1964\par
19 The Disappearing Floor 1940, 1964\par
20 The Mystery of the Flying Express 1941, 1968\par
21 The Clue of the Broken Blade 1942, 1969\par
22 The Flickering Torch Mystery 1943, 171\par
23 The Melted Coins 1944, 1970\par
24 The Short Wave Mystery 1945, 1966\par
25 The Secret Panel 1946, 1969\par
26 The Phantom Freighter 1947, 1970\par
27 The Secret of Skull Mountain 1948, 1966\par
28 The Sign of the Crooked Arrow 1949, 1970\par
29 The Secret of the Lost Tunnel 1950, 1968\par
30 The Wailing Siren Mystery 1951, 1968\par
31 The Secret of Wildcat Swamp 1952, 1969\par
32 The Crisscross Shadow 1953, 1969\par
33 The Yellow Feather Mystery 1954, 1971\par
34 The Hooded Hawk Mystery 1954, 1971\par
35 The Clue in the Embers 1955, 1972\par
36 The Secret of Pirates' Hill 1956, 1972\par
37 The Ghost of Skeleton Rock 1957, 1966\par
38 The Mystery at Devil's Paw 1959, 1973\par
39 The Mystery of the Chinese Junk 1960\par
40 The Mystery of the Desert Giant 1961\par
41 The Clue of the Screeching Owl 1962\par
42 The Viking Symbol Mystery 1963\par
43 The Mystery of the Aztec Warrior 1964\par
44 The Haunted Fort 1965\par
45 The Mystery of the Spiral Bridge 1966\par
46 The Secret Agent on Flight 101 1967\par
47 The Mystery of the Whale Tattoo 1968\par
48 The Arctic Patrol Mystery 1969\par
49 The Bombay Boomerang 1970\par
50 Danger on the Vampire Trail 1971\par
51 The Masked Monkey 1972\par
52 The Shattered Helmet 1973\par
53 The Clue of the Hissing Serpent 1974\par
54 The Mysterious Caravan 1975\par
55 The Witch-Master's Key 1976\par
56 The Jungle Pyramid 1977\par
57 Mystery of the Firebird Rocket 1978\par
58 Sting of the Scorpion 1979\par
\par
\par
NEW YORK.\par
GROSSET & DUNLAP \i Publishers\i0\par
Copyright, 1927, by GROSSET & DUNLAP, inc.\par
\i All Rights Reserved\i0\par
The Tower Treasure\par
\i Printed in the United States of America\i0\par
\par
\par
CONTENTS\par
\par
I The Speed Demon 1\par
II The Stolen Roadster 9\par
III Traces of the Thief 18\par
IV The Hold-Up 26\par
V Chet's Auto Horn 33\par
VI Tire Tracks 45\par
VII The Mansion Robbery 53\par
VIII The Arrest 62\par
IX Red Hair 69\par
X An Important Discovery 77\par
XI Mr. Hardy Investigates 88\par
XII Days of Waiting 97\par
XIII In Poor Quarters 107\par
XIV Red Jackley 116\par
XV The Chief Gets a Bomb 129\par
XVI A Confession 139\par
XVII The Search of the Tower 147\par
XVIII The New Tower 156\par
XIX The Mystery Deepens 164\par
XX The Flash in the Tower 174\par
XXI A New Idea 184\par
XXII The Search 192\par
XXIII Adelia Applegate's Compliment 200\par
XXIV The Last of the Tower Case 208\par
\par
\par
CHAPTER I\par
The Speed Demon\par
\par
\par
"After the help we gave dad on that forgery case I guess he'll begin to think we \i could \i0 be detectives when we grow up."\par
"Why shouldn't we? Isn't he one of the most famous detectives in the country? And aren't we his sons? If the profession was good enough for him to follow it should be good enough for us."\par
Two bright-eyed boys on motorcycles were speeding along a shore road in the sunshine of a morning in spring. It was Saturday and they were enjoying a holiday from the Bayport high school. The day was ideal for a motorcycle trip and the lads were combining business with pleasure by going on an errand to a near-by village for their father.\par
The older of the two boys was a tall, dark youth, about sixteen years of age. His name was Frank Hardy. The other boy, his companion on the motorcycle trip, was his brother Joe, a year younger.\par
While there was a certain resemblance between the two lads, chiefly in the firm yet good-humored expression of their mouths, in some respects they differed greatly in appearance. While Frank was dark, with straight, black hair and brown eyes, his brother was pink-cheeked, with fair, curly hair and blue eyes.\par
These were the Hardy boys, sons of Fenton Hardy, an internationally famous detective who had made a name for himself in the years he had spent on the New York police force and who was now, at the age of forty, handling his own practice. The Hardy family lived in Bayport, a city of about fifty thousand inhabitants, located on Barmet Bay, three miles in from the Atlantic, and here the Hardy boys attended high school and dreamed of the days when they, too, should be detectives like their father.\par
As they sped along the narrow shore road, with the waves breaking on the rocks far below, they discussed their chances of winning over their parents to agreement with their ambition to follow in the footsteps of their father. Like most boys, they speculated frequently on the occupation they should follow when they grew up, and it had always seemed to them that nothing offered so many possibilities of adventure\par
The Speed Demon 3\par
and excitement as the career of a detective.\par
"But whenever we mention it to dad he just laughs at us," said Joe Hardy. "Tells us to wait until we're through school and then we can think about being detectives."\par
"Well, at least he's more encouraging than mother," remarked Frank. "She comes out plump and plain and says she wants one of us to be a doctor and the other a lawyer."\par
"What a fine lawyer either of us would make I" sniffed Joe. "Or a doctor, either I We were both cut out to be detectives and dad knows it."\par
"As I was saying, the help we gave \ul him\ulnone  in that forgery case proves it. He didn't say much, but I'll bet he's been thinking a lot."\par
"Of course we didn't actually \i do \i0 very much in that case," Joe pointed out.\par
"But we suggested something that led to a clue, didn't we? That's as much a part of detective work as anything else. Dad himself ad mitted he would never have thought of examin ing the city tax receipts for that forged signa ture. It was just a lucky idea on our part, but it proved to him that we can use our heads for something more than to hang our hats on."\par
"Oh, I guess he's convinced all right. Once we get out of school he'll probably give his permission. Why, this is a good sign right now, Isn't it? He asked us to deliver these papers\par
I The Tower Treasure\par
for him in Willowville. He's letting us help him."\par
"I'd rather get in on a real, good mystery,'*' said Frank. "It's all right to help dad, but if there's no more excitement in it than delivering papers I'd rather start in studying to be a lawyer and be done with it."\par
"Never mind, Frank," comforted his brother. "We may get a mystery all of our own to solve some day."\par
"If we do we'll show that Fenton Hardy's \'abons are worthy of his name. Oh boy, but what wouldn't I give to be as famous as dad! Why, some of the biggest cases in the country are turned over to him. That forgery case, for instance. Fifty thousand dollars had been stolen right from under the noses of the city officials and all the auditors and city detectives and private detectives they called in had to admit that it was too deep for them."\par
"Then they called in dad and he cleared it up in three days. Once he got suspicious of that slick bookkeeper whom nobody had been suspecting at all, it was all over but the shouting. Got a confession out of him and everything."\par
"It was smooth work. I'm glad our suggestion helped him. The case certainly got a lot of attention in the papers."\par
"And here \i we \i0 are," said Joe, "plugging along the shore road on a measly little errand\par
The Speed Demon $\par
to deliver some legal papers at Willowville. I'd rather be on the track of some diamond thieves or smugglers-or something." , "Well, we have to be satisfied, I suppose,*y replied Frank, leaning farther over the handlebars. "Perhaps dad may give us a chance on a real case some time."\par
"Some time! I want to be on a real case \i now!"\i0\par
The motorcycles roared along the narrow road that skirted the bay. An embankment of tumbled rocks and boulders sloped steeply to the water below, and on the other side of the road was a steep cliff. The roadway itself was narrow, although it was wide enough to permit two cars to meet and pass, and it wound about in frequent curves and turnings. It was a road that was not often traveled, for Willowville was only a small village and this shore road was an offshoot of the main highways to the north and the west.\par
The Hardy boys dropped their discussion of the probability that some day they would be come detectives, and for a while they rode on in silence, occupied with the difficulties of keeping to the road. For the road at this point was dangerous, very rough and rutty, and it sloped sharply upward so that the embankment leading to the ocean far below became steeper anol steeper.\par
<? The Tower Treasure\par
**I shouldn't want to go over the edge aroTmfl here," remarked Frank, as he glanced down the mgged slope.\par
"It's a hundred-foot drop. You'd be smashed to pieces before you ever hit the! shore."\par
"I'll say! It's best to stay in close to the cliff. These curves are bad medicine."\par
The motorcycles took the next curve neatly, and then the boys confronted a long, steep slope. The rocky cliffs frowned on one side, and the embankment jutted far down to the tumbling waves below, so that the road was a mere ribbon before them.\par
"Once we get to the top of the hill well be all right. It's all smooth sailing from there to Willowville," remarked Frank, as the motorcycles commenced the climb.\par
Just then, above the sharp put-put of their own motors, they heard the high humming roar of an automobile approaching at great speed. The car was not yet in sight, but there was no mistaking the fact that it was coursing along with the cut-out open and with no regard for the speed laws.\par
"What idiot is driving like that on this kind of road I'' exclaimed Frank. They looked back.\par
Even as he spoke the automobile flashed into sight.\par
It came around the curve behind and sfg\par
The Speed Demon T\par
swiftly did the driver take the dangerous tnrffi \i that \i0 two wheels were off the ground as the car shot into view. A cloud of dust and stones arose, the car veered violently from left to right, and then it roared at headlong speed down the slope.\par
The boys glimpsed a tense figure at the wheel. How he kept the car on the road \i was \i0 a miracle, for the racing automobile swung from side to side. At one moment it would be in imminent danger of crashing over the embankment, down on the rocks below; the next instant the car would be over on the other side of the road, grazing the cliff.\par
"He'll run us down!" shouted Joe, in alarm. 3<The idiot!"\par
Indeed, the position of the two lads wad perilous.\par
The roadway was narrow enough at any time, and this speeding car was taking up every inch of space. In a great cloud of dust it bore directly down on the two motorcyclists. It seemed to leap through the air. The front wheels left a rut, the rear of the car skidded violently about. By a twist of the wheel the driver pulled the car back into the roadway again just as it seemed about to plunge over the embankment. It shot over toward the cliff, swerved back again into the middle of the roadway, and then shot ahead at terrific speed,\par
i The Tower Treasure\par
Frank and Joe edged their motorcycles as faff to the right of the road as they daredo To jtih&ir horror they saw that the car was sMd-@mg again.\par
The driver made no attempt to slacken speed.\par
\'aene automobile came hurtling toward themJ\par
CHAPTER n\par
the stolen eoadstbb\par
the auto brakes squealed.\par
The driver of the oncoming car swung th\'ae wheel viciously about. For a moment it appeared that the wheels would not respond Then they gripped the gravel and the automobile swerved, then shot past.\par
Bits of sand and gravel were flung about th\'a9 two boys as they crouched by their motorcycles at the edge of the embankment. The car had missed them only by inches!\par
Frank caught a glimpse of the driver, who turned about at that moment and, in spite of the speed at which the automobile was traveling and in spite of the perils of the road, shouted something they could not catch at them and shook his fist.\par
The car was traveling at too great a speed to enable the lad to distinguish the driver's features, but he saw that the man was hatless andl that he had a shock of red hair blowing in the wind.\par
10 Tfie Tower Treasure\par
Then the automobile disappeared from sight around the curve ahead, roaring away in ffi cloud of dust.\par
"The road hog!" gasped Joe, as soon as H0 2iad recovered from his surprise.\par
"He must be crazy!" Frank exclaimed angrily. "Why, he might have pushed us botE right over the embankment!"\par
"At the rate he was going I don't think h\'a9 cared whether he ran any one down or not."\par
Both boys were justifiably angry. On such a narrow, treacherous road there was dangef enough when an automobile passed them traveling at even a reasonable speed, but the reckless and insane driving of the red-headed motorist was nothing short of criminal.\par
"If we ever catch up to him I'm going to give him a piece of my mind!" declared Frank. 5'Not content with almost running us down he liad to shake his fist at us."\par
"Eoad hog!" muttered Joe again. "Jail \i is \i0 too good for the likes of him. If it was only Ms own life he endangered it wouldn't be so bad. Good thing we only had motorcycles. If we had been in another car there would have been a smash-up, sure."\par
The boys resumed their journey and by the time they had reached the curve ahead that snabled them to see the village of Willowville lying in a little valley along the bay beneath\par
The Stolen Roadster 11\par
them, there was no trace of the reckless motorist.\par
Frank delivered the legal papers his father had given to him, and then the boys had the rest of the day to themselves.\par
"It's too early to go back to Bayport just now," he said to Joe. "What say we go out and visit Chet Morton?"\par
"Good idea," agreed Joe. "He has often asked us to come out and see him."\par
Chet Morton -was a school chum of the Hardy boys. His father was a real estate dealer with an office in Bayport, but the family lived in the country, about a mile from the city. Although Willowville was some distance away, the boys knew of a road that would take them acros* country to the Morton home, and from ther\'ae they could return to Bayport. It would maka their journey longer, but they would have the pleasure of visiting their chum. Chet was a great favorite with all the boys, not the least of the reasons for his popularity being the fact that he had a roadster of his own, in which hQ drove to school every day and with which he was very generous in giving rides to his friends after school hours.\par
The Hardy boys drove along the country, roads in the spring sunlight, enjoying the freedom of their holiday as only boys can. "When they had reached a culvert not far from the\par
12 The Tower Treasure\par
Morton place Frank suddenly brought hiw motorcycle to a stop and peered down into e clump of bushes in the deep ditch.\par
"Somebody's had a spill," he remarked.\par
Down in the bushes lay an upturned automobile. The car was a total wreck, and lay bottom upward, a mass of tangled junk.\par
"Must have been hitting an awful clip to crumple up like that," Joe commented. "Perhaps there's some one underneath. Let's go and see."\par
The boys left their motorcycles by the road and went down to the wrecked car. But there was no sign of either driver or passengers.\par
"If any one was hurt they've been taken away by now. Probably this wreck is a day or so old," said Frank. "Let's go. We can't do any good here."\par
They left the wreckage and returned to the road again, resuming their journey.\par
"I thought at first it might be our red-Beaded speed fiend," said Frank. "If it was, he was sure lucky to get out of it alive."\par
The boys gave little further thought to the incident and before long they were in sight of the Mortons' house, a big, homelike, rambling old farmhouse with an apple orchard at the rear. When the boys drove down the lane they saw a figure awaiting them at the barnyard gate.\par
The Stolen Roadsfer 13\par
"That's Chet," said Frank. "I'm glad w\'a9 found him at home. I thought he might have gone out in the car."\par
"It is strange," Joe agreed. "On a holiday like this he doesn't usually stay around the farm."\par
As they approached, they saw Chet leave the .gate and come down the lane to meet them. Chet was one of the most popular boys at the Bayport high school, one reason for his popularity being his unfailing good nature and his ability to see fun in almost everything. He was full of jokes and good humor and was rarely seen without a smile on his plumps freckled face.\par
But to-day the Hardy boys saw that there was something wrong. Chet's face had an anxious expression, and as they brought their motorcycles to a stop they saw that their chum's usually cheery face was clouded.\par
"What's the matter?" asked Frank, as their friend hastened up to them.\par
"You're just in time," replied Chet hurriedly. "You didn't meet a fellow driving my roadster, did you?"\par
The brothers looked at each other blankly.\par
\i "Tour \i0 roadster? We'd recognize it anywhere. No, we didn't see it," said Joe, 38What's happened?"\par
"It's been stolen."\par
14 The Tower Treasure\par
"Stolen?"\par
"An auto thief stole it from the garage not half an hour ago. He just went in as cool as you please and made away with the car. The hired man saw the roadster disappearing down the lane, but he supposed I was in it so he didn't think anything of it. Then he saw me out in the yard a little while later, so he got suspicious-and the roadster was gone."\par
"Wasn't it locked?"\par
"That's the strange part of it. The car was locked, although the garage door was open. I can't see how he got away with it."\par
"A professional job," commented Frank, "'These auto thieves always carry scores of keys with them. But we're losing time here. The only thing is to set out in pursuit and to notify the police. The hired man didn't see which way the fellow went, did he?"\par
"No."\par
"There is only the one road, and we didn't meet him, so he must have taken the turning to the right at the end of the lane."\par
"We'll chase him," said Joe. "Climb onto my bike, Chet. We'll get the thief yet"\par
"Wait a minute," cried Frank suddenly. **i Shave an idea! Joe, do you remember that car we saw wrecked in the bushes?"\par
"Sure."\par
3<Perhaps the driver stole the first automi&K\par
The Stolen Roaastef \i 18\i0\par
bile he could lay his hands on after the wreck.015\par
"What wreck was that?" asked Chet.\par
The Hardy boys told him of the wrecked car they had found by the roadside. It had occurred to Frank that perhaps the smash-up might have occurred just a short while before and that the driver of the wrecked car had resumed his interrupted journey in a stolen automobile.\par
"It sounds reasonable," said Chet. "Let's go and take a look at this wreck. We can get the license number and that may help us find the name of the owner."\par
The motorcycles roared as the three chums set out back along the road toward the place where the upturned automobile had been seen among the bushes. The boys lost no time in reaching the place, for they realized that every second was precious and that the longer they delayed the greater was the advantage to the car thief.\par
The car had not been disturbed and apparently no one had been near it since the boys had discovered the wreck. They parked their motorcycles by the roadside and again went down into the bushes to examine the wrecked car.\par
To their disappointment the car bore no li\'b0 sense plates.\par
"That looks suspicious," said Frank.\par
"It's more than suspicious," said Joe, who\par
\i TS \i0 The Tower Treasure\par
had withdrawn a little to one side and was examining the automobile from the rear,, "Don't you remember seeing this car before^ Frank. It didn't occur to me until you mentioned the matter of license plates."\par
"I have been wondering if this isn't the same car that passed us on the shore road at the curve," replied Frank slowly.\par
"It \i is \i0 the same car. There's no doubt of it in my mind. It didn't have a license plate, I noticed at the time, for I wanted to get the fellow's number. And it was a touring car of the same make as this."\par
"You're right, Joe. There's no mistake. The red-headed driver came to grief in the ditch, just as we said he would, and then he went on to the nearest farmhouse, which happened to be Chet's place, and stole the first car he saw."\par
"The busted car was the one the fellow was running who nearly sent us over the cliff," Joe declared. "And it's ten chances to one that lie's the fellow who stole Chet's roadster. And lie's red-headed. We have those clues, anyway."\par
"And he went on past our farmhouse instead of turning back the way he came," cried Chet 48Come on, fellows-let's get after him! There was only a little bit of gas in the roadster anyway. Perhaps he's stalled by this time-"\par
TEe Stolen Koadster \i\'a53\i0\par
Thrilling with the excitement of a chase, th\'a9 boys clambered back onto the motorcycles andl within a few moments a cloud of dust rose from the road as the Hardy boys and Chet Mortom set out in swift pursuit of the red-headed auto mobile thief.\par
CHAPTEB m\par
tbaces of the thief\par
chet morton's roadster was a brilliant yet Jow, not easily mistaken, and the Hardy boys were confident that it would not be difficult to pick up the trail of the auto thief.\par
"The car is pretty well known around Bayport," said Chet. "It was certainly a gay-looking speed-wagon. Any one who saw it would remember it."\par
"Seems strange that a thief would take a car like that," remarked Frank. "Auto thieves usually take cars of a standard make arid standard color. They're easier to get rid oft He would know that a car like yours could be easily traced."\par
"I don't think he stole the car to sell it,'* Joe pointed out. "Take it from me, that chap was getting away from some place in a hurry and when his own car was smashed he just took the first one that came to hand. If we keep after Mm before he has a chance to get rid of it we'll'\par
iran hira to earth."\par
IS\par
Traces of fne Thief 19\par
A number of men in a hay-field near by at* tracted Frank's attention, and he brought his motorcycle to a stop.\par
"I'm going to ask these chaps if they saw him pass."\par
Frank scrambled over the fence and went over to talk to the farmhands, who watched his approach with curiosity.\par
"Didn't see a yellow roadster pass here within the last hour, did you?"\par
One of them, a lanky old farmer with a sun\'ab burned nose, carefully laid down his scythe, put his hand to his ear and shouted:\par
"Eh?"\par
"Did you see a fellow pass along here in a roadster?" Frank repeated, in a louder tone.\par
The farmer turned to his companions, removed a plug of tobacco from the pocket of his overalls and took a hearty chew.\par
"Lad here want to know if we saw a roadster come by here!" he said slowly.\par
There were three other farmhands and all gathered around. They put down their scythes very deliberately, and the plug of tobacco was duly passed around the group.\par
Frank waited.\par
"A roadster, eh?" asked one.\par
*'A yellow roadster," Frank told him.\par
One of the men removed his hat and moppenS Ms brow.\par
20 The Tower Treasure\par
"Seems to me," he observed, "I \i did \i0 see \'bb \'aear come by here a while ago."\par
"A yellow car?"\par
"No-twan't a yeller car. It was a delivery ftruck, if I remember rightly."\par
Frank strove to conceal his impatience.\par
"It was a roadster I was asking about. A yellow roadster."\par
"Not one of them there coops, hey?" asked the oldest man in the group doubtfully.\par
"No, not a coupe. A roadster."\par
"Roadster, eh?" remarked the old farmer. "That's one of them there autymobiles with just two seats and a little cupboard in the back, eh?"\par
"My cousin has one," observed another member of the group. "He got it secondhand in Bayport. I never \i could \i0 see why he bought the doggone thing, for you can't take the folks out for a ride in it without havin' 'em all crowded somethin' fearful. Give me the old tourin' car every time."\par
"Cain't say as I agree with you," returned the old farmer. "What good's a tourin' car if you want to haul a load of grain into town. Once of them leetle trucks is the best, I've always thought. Then, if you want to go on a picnic or anythin' the family can all climb in the back. You get the \i use \i0 out of a car like that"\par
Traces o^the Thief 2S\par
"Nope. Nothin' like a tourin' car."\par
"Bank extravagance, buyin' tourin' cars,*1' put in another. "Horse and wagon is good enough forme."\par
"That's what I say," agreed the fourth.\par
"What with taxes the way they are-"\par
"And last year's crops wasn't any toe good-"\par
"I tell ye a tourin' car is the only thing nowadays-"\par
Somewhat astonished by the sudden turn the argument had taken, Frank vainly tried tc make himself heard above the uproar.\par
"But about this roadster?" he asked. "Did any of you see it!"\par
But the four men in the field were not listening. Instead they were deep in a highly complicated argument regarding the faults and merits of various makes of cars and they paid no further attention to the youth.\par
"Can't afford to waste any more time here,'* he said to himself, and turned away. At the fence, he looked back. One of the farmhands was shaking his fist beneath the nose of a companion, while the other two were engrossed in a heated discussion. Their voices floated across the hayfield in the drowsy summer morning,,\par
"It looks as if you started something,'9 laughed Joe, as his brother returned to the motorcycle.\par
22 The Tower Treasure\par
"I certainly did. Just asked them if they had seen a yellow roadster and they started to fight about what was the best car for a farmeff to buy."\par
"And didn't they see the roadster?" asked Chet.\par
"I don't think so. If they had they would Ihave told me. I guess they were glad of an excuse to quit work."\par
"Well, we'd better be getting on our way then. We've lost enough time already."\par
So, while the four farmhands wrangled loudly in the field, in an argument that bade fair to last until dinner-time at least, the three boys set out again in pursuit of the red-headed auto thief.\par
They were approaching Bayport when they saw a girl walking along the road ahead of them. There was something familiar about her appearance, and as they drew nearer Frank's face lighted up, for he recognized the girl as Gallic Shaw, who was in his own class at Bayport high school. Of all the girls at the school, Callie war- the one most greatly admired by Frank. She was a pretty girl, with brown hair and brown eyes, always neatly dressed, and quick and vivacious in her manner.\par
As the boys brought their motorcycles to a stop, Frank saw that Callie was not in her actual bright and cheery humor. Under on\'a9\par
\bullet Traces of tie Thief 23\par
arm she was carrying a parcel that had evidently become untied and the paper of which was badly torn. Her face was distressed and aS appeared that she had been crying.\par
Callie looked up and, recognizing the boySc ran over toward them.\par
"That awful man!" she wailed, even before they had time to ask her what the matter was. "He ran right over my parcel and smashed nearly all the cakes and jelly I was bringing to Mrs. Wills I"\par
And with that she held out the torn parcel Frank knew that Callie, who was a generous and good-hearted girl, had been in the habit of taking little delicacies to a widow, Mrs\'bb Wills,, who lived just on the outskirts of Bayport.\par
Now he saw that the parcel had been smashed so that only one glass of jelly and a few of the cakes had been left intact.\par
"What man, Callie?" he asked. "What happened."\par
"He ran right over my parcel!" Just then Callie spied Chet Morton, and she pouted at him. "He was a friend of yours, too, Chet Morton, for he was driving your car!"\par
"My car!" gasped Chet.\par
"Your yellow roadster. He came driving along this road at such a terrible speed that I was frightened and I dropped my parceL Them he ran right over it,"\par
The Tower Treasure\par
"Why, Callie, that's just the fellow we*v\'ab fceen looking for!" said Frank quickly, B<sChet's car has been stolen!"\par
"Well, whoever stole it, came by here not ten minutes ago,'' said the girl. *' And he's a madman-by the way he was driving."\par
"Why, we're right on his trail then!" declared Frank. "He must have gone into Bayport."\par
"He was heading that way," Callie told them. "But at the rate he was going, you 11 tiave a hard time catching him. Oh, Chet, I'm jbo sorry your car was stolen."\par
"Don't worry. We'll get it back," replied! -Chet grimly.\par
"Are you going back home, CallieT" asketil Frank.\par
"No, I'm going on up to Mrs. Wills' place,, You needn't bother to drive me up. It's only B few yards farther on. I know you're anxious to chase that awful man."\par
"We'll chase him, all right!" declared Frank, as the motorcycles roared.\par
They bade good-bye to the girl and sped on fffiieir way into Bayport, leaving Callie to con-j&irae her journey to the home of Mrs. Willss yith the remains of the cakes and jelly over which she had spent so much time and care.\par
They sped down the main street of Bayport \i Jssxul \i0 headed directly to the police station, where\par
Traces of the Thief %\par
they intended to report the theft of Chet's cart' and a description of the thief, assuming \ul him\ulnone  to be the red-headed man who had so nearly rasa down Frank and Joe on the shore road.\par
But when they reached the police station 1 farther surprise was in wait for them.\par
CHAPTER I? the HoLD-Ur\par
(Sm&F ezba collig, of the Bayport polios !?dm5\'a9s, was a burly, red-faced individual, much given to telling long-winded stories^\par
Usually, Collig was to be found reclining im \'ae swivel chair in his office, with his feet on th\'ae JSeslks, reading the comic papers or polishing up) Ms numerous badges, but this day something 2n\'aed happened to shake him out of his custom-azy calm,\par
When the boys went into his office they f ouncj ffle chief painfully writing in a huge notebook and confronted by three excited figureSo On\'a9 <o>f these was Ike Harrity, the old ticket seller ait the city steamboat office. The others were .Detective Smuffj of the police forces and Po Iceman Con Riley, both trying their best to )\}\'a9ok important and composed,,\par
Ik\'a9 Harrity was frankly frightened. It was plain that something very much out of the ordi= Miry had happened, Harrity was a timid anl 5\'aeo>ffensiv\'a9 old chap who had perched \i on \i0 $\par
T&e Hold-Up \i %$\i0\par
Sigh stool behind the wicket at the steamboat Office day in and day out for as many years as any one in Bayport could remember.\par
"I was just countin' up the mornin's receipts," he was saying, in a frightened and iiigh-pitched voice, "when in comes this fellow and he sticks a revolver in front of my nose-**\par
"Just a minute," interrupted the chief grandly, as the boys entered. He dipped hi@ pen in the inkwell and poised it in the air, as lie peered at the lads over his spectacles.\par
"What are you boys doing here? Can't yoffi see we're busy?"\par
"I came to report a theft," said Chet Morton. "My roadster has been stolen."\par
"Why, it was a roadster this fellow drove up to my office in!" cried Ike Harrity0 \i "A \i0 yellow roadster."\par
"Ha!" said Detective Smuff. "A clue!" He immediately fished a notebook out of his pocket and began rummaging around for a pencil.\par
"Never mind, Detective Smuff," observed the chief heavily 0 "I'll take any notes that are aeeded,"\par
Detective Smuff, duly squelched, put back Ma notebook in confusion.\par
"What fellow?" Frank asked. "Who drove up to your office in a yellow roadster?"\par
"The hold-up man," declared Harrity. "*\'a3 held up this morning, A fellow tried\par
^8 THe Tower Treasure\par
to steal the steamboat money on\par
**Now just a minute. Just a minute!" manded the chief. "Let \i me \i0 say a word here, The situation is this. A man drove up to th\'a9 steamboat office a little while ago and tried to jfeold up Mr. Harrity. But a passenger happened to come into the office just then and the fellow got frightened and ran away Is thaft Sight?"\par
"That's right," said Harrity.\par
"Ill make a note of it," said the chief, suit-Sag the action to the word. When he had scribbled industriously for some time he raised the pen again and pointed it at Chet.\par
"Now \i you," \i0 he observed, "say that somebody stole a yellow roadster on you this morn Ing."\par
"Yes, sir! From our farm. He was seem driving into Bayport just a little while ago.'*\par
The chief made a note of it.\par
*'And \i you," \i0 he said, pointing the pen at Ike Harrity, "say the hold-up man drove up to the affice in a yellow roadster?"\par
"That's right, chief. That's right A yel low roadster, it was. And now that I come te think of it, iVe seen Chet Morton's car be fore and it was the spittin' image of it."\par
"Then," declared the chief, putting down his pen with the air of one making a momentous Discovery, "it looks to me vent much as if the\par
The Hold-\par
Siold-up man and the fellow that stole the ess? \i is \i0 one and the same man."\par
Detective Smuff wagged his head solemnly Im \bullet admiration of this feat of deduction. *'I bfr-Heve you're right, chief," he declared.\par
"Of course he's right," said Frank. \i "M \i0 couldn't be any one else. The point is this- where did the hold-up man go ? Did he leave iffi the car? Did any one follow him?"\par
"He left in the car all right," said Harrity 6"But nobody followed him. I telephoned fos the police."\par
"Did you notice the color of this man's? hair?" asked Frank suddenly.\par
"What's that got to do with it?" asked Detective Smuff.\par
*' Never mind. It may have a great deal to d\'a9 with it. Did you notice the color of his hair?'-repeated Frank, turning to Harrity.\par
"It was short," said Harrity firmly. "Shorl and dark."\par
Frank and Joe looked blankly at one an-ather.\par
"Are you sure?" asked Joe.\par
"I'm positive," declared Harrity. "I was face to face with him. He \i was \i0 a dark-haired man, and his hair was cut awful short. 1 ne> faced that."\par
\'a3< You 're sure he wasn't red-headed ?vi *I'm sure of iL"\par
30 The Tower Treasure\par
\'absWhat's all this about?" asked Chief CoISig suspiciously. "What has the color of his half to do with it?"\par
"Well," admitted Frank, "we were pretty sure that the man who stole Chet's car had long^ ffed hair."\par
"Hum!" muttered the chief doubtfully "Then if \i that \i0 was the case, the man who stole the car and the man who tried to hold up th\'a9 office \i isn't \i0 one and the same fellow after alL"\par
*'I don't know what to make of it," confessed! Frank.\par
Just then a short, nervous little man was nishered into the office. He introduced himself as the passenger who had gone into the steamboat office at the tune of the attempted hold-up, and he presented himself in answer to a call from the chief.\par
In reply to questions, the newcomer, who gave the prosaic name of Henry J. Brown and said he was from New York, told of entering the office and seeing a man run away from the wicket with a revolver in his hand.\par
*' What color was his hair ? Did you notice ?\i vs \i0 asked Frank eagerly.\par
"I can't say I did," answered the little maa, "It all happened so quickly I didn't realize that it was a hold-up until the man was out the door. Then I saw him jump into the roadster and drive away. But-wait a minute* I di^\par
The Sold-TTp SI\par
notice the color of his hair. Just as the car was disappearing down the street. Yots Couldn't help notice. He was red-headed. He lhad long red hair."\par
Detective Smuff looked blankly at the chief and the chief looked blankly at everybody else^ particularly at Henry J. Brown of New York\par
"1 knew it!" declared Joe exultantly,, ^'It9\'ae the same man!"\par
"It can't be the same man!" said the chief wearily. "You boys don't know what you're ialking about Mr. Harrity says he had shorty dark hair. Now how could he have short, dark Siair and long, red hair at the same time! I ask you that! How could he?"\par
Chief Collig propounded this query with the expression of one who has triumphantly settled all difficulties.\par
"He had short, dark hair!" said Harrity doggedly.\par
"And I'm sure he had long, red hairIs" shouted Henry J. Brown, very indignantly. "Do you think I'm blind? Do you think I*<cS Sell a lie about it?"\par
"He had dark hair.**\par
\'ab'It was red."\par
\i &<It \i0 was dark."\par
"It wasn't."\par
8<It was!"\par
"Stop it!" commanded Chief Collig. SSH\par
32 The Tower Treasure\par
<3on't think either of you know what Mnd df liair he had. Probably he was bald-headed But I'll send word out to keep a watch for the yellow roadster. I'll notify the police in other towns too. I guess that's all that can be done now."\par
And with that, the Hardy boys and Chet Morton had to be content.\par
When they left the office it was with little liope that the thief or the car would be found Their misgivings were justified. "When they returned to see Chief Collig that night they learned that no word had been received concerning the yellow roadster from any of the outlying towns or villages and that despite a diligent search conducted by Detective Smuff and other members of the Bayport force, the >\'aeadster had not been located in the city\par
CHAPTER V\par
chet's auto hoen\par
fenton habdy, the internationally famous detective, was reading in the library of his home that evening when his sons tapped on the door.\par
Although he was a busy man, Mr. Hardy was not the type of father who maintains an air of aloofness from his family, the result being that be was on as good terms with his boys as though he were an elder brother.\par
"Come in," he shouted cheerfully, putting aside his book, and when Frank and Joe en tered the room he motioned to a deep leather sofa near the window. "Sit down. What have you been doing all day? Burning up alii the roads in the country, I suppose ?' * He grin oed amiably at them* and puffed vigorously a>t Hiis pipe.\par
"Well, we didnt travel very far to-day dad," Frank replied. "We were-wells we-\i we \i0 were-"\par
u Investigating," prompted Joe.\par
B4 The Tower Treasure\par
^Aha!" exclaimed Mr. Hardy, in mock surprise. "So my sons were investigating, ehf What was it? A murder? A plot to blow up the White House? A train wreck? Something 'big, I hope."\par
6'No-not quite that bad," admitted Frank. 2(5It was a car theft."\par
Mr. Hardy shook his head.\par
**I'm disappointed in you," he said solemnly. S8I really am. To think that sons of mine should investigate a car theft. I thought you wouldn't bother about anything less than a murder!" His eyes twinkled, and the Hardy boys, who were accustomed to their father's good-natured banter, smiled back at him.\par
"We weren't just practicing detective works, dad," explained Frank. "Yon see, Chet Morton's roadster was stolen this morning."\par
"Is that so!" exclaimed Mr. Hardy, genuinely concerned. "Why, that's too bad. Chet was mighty proud of that car, wasn't he?"\par
"Yes, he was. And it hasn't been found yet"\par
"No trace of the thief?"\par
"'He tried to hold up the steamboat tickeft (sffice after he stole the car."\par
Mr. Hardy whistled.\par
8*Why you \i have \i0 been on a case worth whileo itfell me all about it."\par
He settled back in his chair while his song\par
Chet's Auto Horn 35"\par
field Mm the story of the day's doings. Whom ihey told of the difference of opinion as to th\'a9 color of the man's hair he did not laugh with them, as they had expected, over the argument between Harrity and Mr. Brown. On the con= trary, he knitted his brows and his face wore a serious expression.\par
"It wasn't any ordinary auto thief you were dealing with," he said slowly. "I've no doubt the man who tried to rob the ticket office ane! the man who almost ran you down on the shore road were one and the same. And the same man stole Chet Morton's car."\par
"But how about the color of his hair? There must have been two men," said Joe.\par
"Think so? I have my own theories. Buft then-the average witness is very unreliable. For instance, I'll give you a test You have <each seen Superintendent Norton of Bayport Mgh school-well, how often?"\par
"About two or three thousand times., I guess," answered Frank.\par
"Over a period of three years,, Well, \'aeDlor is his hair?"\par
Frank looked blankly at Joe*\par
"Why, it's-it's-"\par
Joe scratched his head,\par
\'ab'Brown, isn't it?"\par
\i 6tl \i0 think's it's black."\par
1' You see \i 1'' \i0 said Mr, Hardy^ smiling \i 3*\i0\par
36 The Tower Treasure\par
powers of observation have not been trained A good detective has to school himself to remember all sorts of little facts like that, until it gets to be a habit with him. Both of yott have been looking at Mr, Norton for about three years and you don't know the color of his hair. And if I asked you whether he was in the habit of wearing laced shoes or buttoned shoes you would be stumped altogether. As a matter of fact, Mr. Norton is bald and he wears a chestnut wig. You never noticed that? He always wears buttoned shoes, he belongs to the Elks, and his favorite author is Dickens." The boys looked at their father in amazement "But, dad, you've never met him." "I've never been introduced to him, but I'vt passed him on the street a number of times When your powers of observation have beec trained as mine have been it's no trick at all to take away a mental photograph of a man after seeing him once. If you are specially observant it isn't hard to notice such details as that re garding the wig, A wig never lias the same ap pearance as natural hair '\'bb\par
"But how do you know he belongs to the Elks!" asked Joe.\par
"He wears the lodge emblem as a watch sharm."\par
"And how do you know his favorite author is Dickens f"\par
Chet's Auto Horn \'bbf\par
three separate occasions that I met Mi Norton I noticed that he was carrying a book, Once it was 'Oliver Twist.' Another time 1ft was <A Tale of Two Cities.* The third tim\'a9 It was 'David Copperfield.' So I judge thai his favorite author must he Dickens. \ul Am\ulnone  I right?"\par
"He always talks Dickens to us at school/6 said Frank.\par
"It's simple enough, once you get the habit,* remarked Mr. Hardy. "You must tram yourselves to be observant, so that in time you will! automatically remember little details about people you meet and places you've visited Now, if Harrity and Mr. Brown had been \i &t \i0 all observant, in spite of the fact that they were surprised and frightened, they would have been able to give the police a very thor ough description of the man who tried to hold up the steamboat office. And if the man hap pened to be a professional thief the description would have helped the officers ascertain who he was, because once a man has served a prison term his description is kept on fita As it is, all we know about him is that he is prob\'bb ably red-headed. That isn't very much to go on."\par
"I'm afraid Chet hasn't much chance of re severing his roadster," said Joe.\par
s*You never can telL" remarked his father\par
38 The Tower Treasure\par
8slt may turn up some time. Perhaps the thief will get himself into trouble yet. Keep youff ears and eyes open. And now, if you donl "mind, I have some reports to write-"\par
Frank and Joe took the hint and left thei? father to his work. But although they talked long into the night on possible ways and means of recovering Chet's car, they were able to de= vise no plan for tracing the thief.\par
And through the week that followed there were no further clues. Chet had given up all hope of seeing the roadster again.\par
"I sure miss the old bus," he told the Hardy boys after school on Friday afternoon. "I have to take my chances on catching rides in and out of town now. "Why, last night I walked! half way home before a car came along and gave me a lift."\par
"Saturday will be a pretty dull day for yo\'abi Bow."\par
"You just bet your sweet life it will be dulli .Nothing to do but sit around the farm."\par
"Better come with us to-morrow," suggested Joe. "A bunch of us are going fishing up near (the dam. You can meet us at the crossroads near Willow Eiver."\par
"Good idea!" said Chet. "What time?"\par
\'ab'Ten o'clock."\par
6'Fine! I'll be there. Gosh, I see where I (get a ride home. There goes a hay wagon*\par
Chet's Auto Horn 3S\par
it's heading right for the next farm"1'\par
A long wagon rumbled slowly toward th\'ae boys,, A lean and solemn farmer perched om the front seat, half asleep. The horses dawdled! along.\par
"That's Lem Billers-the laziest man iroi aine counties," said Chet. "Watch me have some fun with him."\par
Chet took from his pocket an automobile \i horn. \i0 He had originally bought it for the road! ster but had not had time to instal it befor\'ae .he car was stolen,, The horn was of a new iype, very small, yet it had a particularly ram tsous shriek.\par
The Hardy boys grinned as they saw Chei step out into the road and swing himself lightly mp on the back of the wagon. Mr. Billers was bringing some supplies back to the farm andl Chet was hidden from view by a bag of flour.\par
As the wagon rumbled past, Chet sounded! the automobile horn.\par
It shrieked sharply and insistently.\par
Mr. Billers, being a lazy man, did not eve\'ae Book behind. He simply tugged lightly at th\'a9 ffeins and the horses edged over to the side of 4he road.\par
Having heard the horn, Mr. Billers expected an automobile would pass. But when no car flashed by he turned indolently in his seat and Hooked behind. The roadway was clear. There\par
K> The Tower Treasure\par
was not an automobile in sight. He did not Chet, doubling up with laughter, on the back o! the wagon. He gazed doubtfully at the Hardy boys, who were standing at the curb, trying to conceal their smiles.\par
"Could 'a' swore I heard a horn," grunted Mr. Billers. Then he tugged at the lines and brought the horses into the middle of the road again.\par
Instantly the horn shrieked again. This lime it was even louder and more insistent than before. It seemed that an automobile was fight behind the wagon, clamoring to pass.\par
Almost automatically, Mr. Billers yanked at the reins and the horses again went to the side of the road.\par
But again no car went by.\par
Again Mr. Billers looked behind. Again, to nis astonishment, he saw that the roadway was slear.\par
"Hanged if 1 didn't think I heard a horn!'v exclaimed Mr. Billers, greatly puzzled, as he drove on again. "My ears must be goin' back 5n me."\par
But in a few minutes the horn shrieked again. Frank and Joe, who were walking along the sidewalk, keeping abreast of the wagon so as not to miss the fun, chuckled as they saw Mr. Billers once more pull on the jfeins to guide the horses to the roadside. Thee\par
Chet's Auto Horn 41\par
\i the \i0 farmer recollected how he had been fooled on the previous occasions and he looked quickly around. But there was no car in sight.\par
Mr. Billers gazed down the roadway for a long time. Then he sighed, with the air of one whose patience has been long tried.\par
"Must be somethin' the matter with my ears," he muttered, and drove on.\par
At this moment a luxurious sedan swept around a corner and drew up close behind the wagon. There was a chauffeur at the wheel and he sounded his horn impatiently, for the road was narrow and he was unable to get past.\par
Lem Billers smiled darkly to himself and paid no attention.\par
"There it goes again," he grumbled. "I \i must \i0 be hearin' things. Hang me if I'll turn out any more when there ain't no car there to turn out for."\par
The wagon continued in the center of the road. The chauffeur of the car glared at Lem Billers' back and sounded the horn again. Still the farmer paid no attention.\par
Chet, limp with laughter, almost rolled off the wagon. Frank and Joe could control their mirth no longer, and leaned against a telephone post with shouts of glee.\par
The chauffeur, believing that the boys were Jaughing at \ul him\ulnone  because he could not get past\par
^2 The Tower Treasure\par
became purple with anger. He sounded the horn again and again, and finally, when Lena Billers obstinately refused to pay any attention, he looked wildly about for a policeman.\par
As luck would have it, Constable Con Riley was ambling along Main Street at that moments, wondering if it would soon be supper time and hoping his wife would serve corned beef and cabbage that evening. He was aroused from his trance by the chauffeur, who brought the sedan to a stop and ran over to him.\par
"Officer-arrest that man!" roared the chauffeur, pointing to Lem Billers.\par
"What for?" demanded Con, taking off his helmet and scratching his head.\par
"Obstructing the traffic. He won't let me pass. I've been sounding my horn for the last five minutes, and he won't let me go past."\par
" Oh, ho 1" said Constable Riley. \'ab' He can't get away with that. Not while Con Riley's on the beat." And with that he ran out into the road, shouting to Lem Billers to stop.\par
At the constable's command, the farmer halted his team and gazed in amazement at the chauffeur and the officer as they came running up to him.\par
"Why won't you let him pass!" demanded \{the constable.\par
"Don't say you didn't hear me?" roared the ishauffeur. "I sounded \i my \i0 horn fifty times.,89\par
Chet's Auto Horn 4$\par
**Sure, I heard a horn," admitted Billers0 "But," he added triumphantly, "I didn't see no car."\par
"Are you blind?" asked Riley. "There's the car."\par
Lena Billers looked behind. At sight of tho sedan, his jaw dropped.\par
"Well, I'll be hanged!" he declared sadly0 \i 6tlt \i0 must be my eyes is goin* back on me. Not my ears. I looked behind three times and I couldn't see no car."\par
"Don't believe him, officer," said the chauffeur. "He didn't even turn around."\par
"I did 301" contended Mr. Billers.\par
"Then why didn't you let me pass?"\par
"You didn't have no car. I heard a hora\'bb but I didn't see no car."\par
Thereupon the argument grew fast and furi-ous. Constable Riley was vastly puzzled. H\'ae didn't know what to make of it. Both the chauffeur and Lem Billers appeared to be telling the truth, yet there was something wrong somewhere. He took it all down in a notebook, while Mr. Billers and the chauffeur gre~v\'bb angrier and angrier at each other until finally they were on the point of settling the mattes with their fists.\par
In the meantime there was a steadily length-fining line of cars and wagons blocking th\'ab Street, unable to get past because of the haf\par
44 The Tower Treasure\par
wagon and the sedan. A constant chorus sC automobile horns sounded. Angry drivers roared at the officer to clear the road.\par
Constable Riley threw up his hands in disgust.\par
"Get on your way, both of you," he commanded. "I can't stand here arguin' all after-aoon."\par
And while Lena Billers, wondering whether Ms eyes or his ears had deceived him, drew his horses to the side of the road and muttered strong threats of vengeance against the chauffeur, the traffic tangle gradually abated. When he finally resumed his journey, the Hardy boys could see Chet Morton lying limply in the back of the wagon with tears of laughter running down his face. As for Frank and Joe, they laughed all the way home and during suppef that evening their spasmodic outbursts \'a9' buckles puzzled their parents extremely.\par
CHAPTER VI\par
ties teaoks\par
next day was Saturday, and immediately after breakfast the Hardy boys asked theiff mother to make up a lunch for them, as they intended to spend the day in the woods with a number of their school chums.\par
Mrs. Hardy quickly made tip a generous package of sandwiches, not forgetting to slip in several big slices of the boys' favorite cake, and the lads started out in the bright morning eunshine, with the whole holiday before them.\par
They met the other boys, half a dozen in alls, on the road at the outskirts of the town and so9 whistling and chattering and telling jokes, the group trudged along the dusty highway. One\'a9 in a while they would explore along the fences for berry bushes, and occasionally a friendly scuffle would start, to end with both laughing aontestants covered with dust.\par
When they reached the crossroads Chet had not yet appeared, so they rested in the shad\'ae 3>f the trees until at length the chubby youtli\par
45\par
i6 The Tower Treasure\par
same panting along the road, his lunch nudes Ms arm.\par
"If I only had my roadster I wouldn't b\'a9 Sate," he said, as he came up to them. "I've been so used to it that I've forgotten how long it takes to walk this far."\par
"Well, are we all set?" asked Frank.\par
"Everybody's here. Where are we going?'*\par
"What do you say to Willow Grove ?"\par
"All those in favor say 'Aye'," demanded Chet, and there was a chorus of "Aye" from the crowd.\par
"It's unanimous," Chet decided. "Willow 'Grove it shall be. Let's go."\par
Willow Grove was about a mile farther on. It was some distance in from the road, and was on the banks of Willow River, from which it got its name. It was an ideal place for a picnic, and as it was somewhat early in the season at was hardly likely that other parties from the city would be in the grove that day.\par
Frank told the other boys about Chet's adventure with the auto horn and the story was greeted with shouts of laughter, which were redoubled when Chet told how he had later Jtunped down from the wagon and run along behind, shouting to Lem Billers to give him a side.\par
"It was a shame!" he confessed. '' The poo* .old chap reined in his horses and made\par
Tire TracKS \i '\'a3F\i0\par
\i @ome up \i0 and sit on the seat beside him. H\'ae asked me if I had walked very far and them he told me all about his argument with the policeman and the chauffeur. I could hardly keep my face straight."\par
When the boys reached the lane that led iffi toward Willow Grove from the main road they broke into a run and raced into the woods, shouting and yelling like wild Indians. Once in the friendly shade of the trees they capered about in the joy of their Saturday freedom. Chet took charge of the lunches and stored them in a convenient clearing, and then began the rush for the river.\par
The day passed in the usual fashion of such days. They swam, they ate, they loafed about tinder the trees, they played games at imminent risk of life and limb, they explored the woods, and otherwise enjoyed themselves with all the happy energy of healthy lads. Joe Hardy^ who was an amateur naturalist in his way, went roaming off by himself during the afternoon while the other boys were enjoying their third swim of the day, and penetrated deeper into the woods.\par
He poked about in the undergrowth, examining various flowers and plants that came to his attention, but discovered no specimens that h<& had not seen before. He was just on the pointc fpf going back to the other lads when he saw b&\par
18 The Tower Treasure\par
fore him a small clearing. It was a part <9& the grove in which he had never been, so h\'a9 ploughed on through the bushes until he found himself in a clearing that appeared to be part of an abandoned roadway.\par
It was in a low-lying part of the grove and the ground was wet. At one point it was muddy, and in this mud Joe saw something that aroused his curiosity.\par
"Tire tracks, eh! There's been an automobile in here," he muttered to himself. "I won-3er how on earth a car could get this far into the woods!"\par
Then he remembered his father's remarks on the value of developing his powers of observation, so he went over closer and examined the marks in the mud.\par
'' That's a strange tread," he thought. '' I 've Mover seen a tire mark quite like that before."\par
He gazed at it until he was sure that if he aver saw a similar auto tread again he would irecognize it.\par
"That just goes to prove that dad was right," said Joe. "Probably I've seen auto tires like that often, but I've never noticed the markings, and now that I do notice one in particular it seems strange to me. But I wonder what an automobile was doing in here and how it came to get here in the first place!"\par
However, he gave the matter little further\par
Tire Tracks 49\par
thought and retraced his steps through the woods until he returned to the other boys, who were getting dressed after their swim.\par
"I thought automobiles weren't allowed in Willow Grove," he said casually to Chet Morton.\par
"Neither they are. You have to park just inside the fence."\par
"Well, somebody brought a car right down Into the grove."\par
"They couldn't. There's no road."\par
"Well, there's a sort of clearing over there," said Joe, motioning in the direction from which he had just returned. "It looks as if it had been a road at one time."\par
"That's probably the old creek road. It hasn't been used for years."\par
"Well, it was used just this week. I saw the marks of an automobile tire over there not ten minutes ago. And it was a mighty peculiar tread, too. Like this-," and Joe commenced to draw a replica of the design in the sand, using a thin stick of wood as a pencil.\par
Chet Morton stared.\par
"Why," he exclaimed, "there's only one car In the city has tires like that!"\par
"Whose car?"\par
"Mine!" exclaimed Chet, springing to hia feet. "Where \i is \i0 this road you found?"\par
Joe Hardy quickly led the way and all the\par
50 The Tower Treasure\par
other boys came trooping along behind, the whole band thrown into a state of great excitement by this unexpected discovery. They all knew that Chet's car was of an unusual make and that the tires were distinctive. When, they reached the clearing and Chet had examined the imprint in the mud he exclaimed:\par
"There's no mistake about it! My car has been here! No other car in the city has a tread like that!"\par
"Perhaps the car is still around here," suggested Frank quickly. "For all we can tell, the thief may have abandoned it and picked this road as a good place to hide it."\par
"It would be an ideal place," agreed Chet. "This road leads off the main highway, and it isn't often used. Let's take a look around, anyway."\par
The boys quickly scattered, some taking one side of the road, the rest taking the other.\par
For a while the search continued without success, but at last Frank and Chet, who were following the abandoned road farther down, gave a simultaneous cry.\par
"Here's a bypath!"\par
Before them was a narrow roadway, ovef-grown with weeds and low bushes that almost Md it from view. It led from the abandoned sroad into the very depths of the wood. With "tot hesitation the two boys plunged into it.\par
Tire Tracks 51\par
The narrow roadway widened out farther to, then wound about a heavy clump of trees, nntil it came to an end in a wide clearing.\par
And in the clearing stood Chet Morton's lost roadster!\par
"My car!" yelled Chet, in delight.\par
His shout was heard by all the other boys, and the sound of snapping twigs and crackling branches soon told Frank and Chet that the others were losing no time in reaching the scene.\par
Chet's delight was boundless. He examined the car with minute care, in every particular, while the other boys crowded about. At last he straightened up with a smile of satisfaction,,\par
"She hasn't been damaged a bit. All ready to run. The thief just hid the old bus in here and made a getaway. Come on, fellows, we don't walk back home to-day. We ride."\par
He clamored into the car and in a few seconds the engine roared. There was sufficient room in the clearing to permit him to turn the roadster about, and when he swung the car around and headed up the bypath the boya gave a cheer and hastened to clamber on board,\par
Lurching and swaying, the roadster reached the abandoned road and from there it was an easy run to the main highway. In spite of the fact that it had been left in the bush for probably a week, the roadster was in perfect con-/\par
52 The Tower Treasure\par
dition and the engine ran smoothly. Joe was given the seat of honor beside the driver, because he had discovered the tire marks that had led to the recovery of the car, and the other boys distributed themselves as best they could. They clung to the running boards, /hung precariously to the back, and one lad even straddled the hood. In this manner the triumphal procession returned to Bayport.\par
But as the cheering lads came down the main street they noticed that there was an unwonted air of excitement in the town. People were standing on the street corners in little groups, talking earnestly, and when the boys spied Detective Smuff, of the police force, striding along with a portentous frown, they called out to \ul him.\ulnone\par
"What's on your mind to-day, detective? Chet got his car back!"\par
"I've got something more important than stolen cars to worry about," declared Detective Smuff. "The Tower Mansion has beeia srobbed."\par
CHAPTER VH\par
the mansion eobbebt\par
towbb mansion was one of the show places df Bayport. Few people in the city had ever been permitted to enter the place and the admiration the palatial building excited was solely by reason of its exterior appearance^ but the first thing a newcomer to Bayport usually asked was, "Who owns that magnificent house on the hill?"\par
It was an immense, rambling stone structure situated on the top of the hill overlooking the bay, and it could be seen for miles, silhouetted against the skyline, like some ancient feudal sastle. This resemblance to a castle was heightened by the fact that at each end of the mansion rose a high tower.\par
One of these towers had been built when the mansion was first erected by Major Applegate^ an eccentric old army man who had made millions by lucky real estate deals and had laid the foundation for the Applegate fortune,, The mansion had been the admiration of ite\par
53\par
54 Tfie Tower Treasure\par
day and in its time had seen much gaiety But as the years passed the Applegat\'a9 family became scattered until at last there re\'bb mained but Kurd Applegate and his sister Adelia, who continued living in the vast and lonely old mansion.\par
Hurd Applegate was a man of about sixty years of age. He was a tall, stooped man, eccentric in his ways, and his life seemed to be devoted to the collection of rare stamps. He was an authority on the subject, and nothing else in life appeared to hold a great deal of interest for him. The only visitors at Tower Mansion were philatelists from New York or experts desirous of appraising some new stamp that Hurd Applegate had managed to secure from some remote part of the world. It had often been said in Bayport that Hurd Applegate had accomplished only two things in life-he had collected stamps and he had built a new tower on the mansion. The new tower, a duplicate of the original tower at the opposite end of the great building, had been built but a few years-even well within the memory of the two Hardy boys.\par
Adelia Applegate, who lived in the Tower Mansion with her brother, was a maiden lady of uncertain years. The records in Bayport's city hall gave her age as fifty-five, but Miss Applegate admitted it to no one. She was as\par
The Mansion Robbery \'a7\'a7>\par
eccentric as her brother, and lived very nracl to herself, being seldom seen in the city. Sh\'a9 was at one time a blonde, but she had endeav ored to retain her youth by dyeing her haiffs) with the result that it was now a sort of dusty Mack. Chet Morton was fond of saying thaft i8Miss Applegate used to be a blonde but she iyed."\par
She dressed in all colors of the rainbow, an\'ab$ Hier infrequent excursions into Bayport stores, when she would order the clerks about like sc many soldiers, shouting at them in her highs tracked voice, had become historic on account of the wild and colorful garments she wouMl sarry off with her.\par
These eccentric people were reputed to Ixs enormously wealthy, although they lived! simply and kept only a few servants. So when Hurd Applegate came into the Bayport police station that afternoon and reported that the safe in his library had been broken open and! that it had been robbed of all the securities aadl jewels it contained, the rumors that soobi spread about the city magnified the actual loss antil it became common talk that the loss amounted anywhere from one hundred thorn* sand to a million dollars.\par
When Frank and Joe Hardy arrived horn\'ae that evening they met Hurd Applegate jusft |\'a9aving the house. The man tapped the step\'a9\par
56 The Tower Treasure\par
with his cane as he came out and when he met the boys he gave them an abrupt and piercing glance.\par
"Good day!" he growled, in a grudging manner, and went on his way.\par
"He must have been asking dad to take up the case," said Frank to his brother, as soon as Hurd Applegate was out of earshot.\par
They hurried into the house, eager to find out more about the robbery, and in the hallway they met Fenton Hardy, who had just seen Mr. Applegate to the door.\par
"I hear the Tower Mansion was robbed," said Joe.\par
Mr. Hardy nodded.\par
4'Yes-Mr. Applegate was just here. He wants me to handle the case."\par
"How much was taken?"\par
"Quite curious, aren't you?" remarked Mr\'bb Hardy, with a smile. "Well, \i I \i0 don't suppose it will do any harm to tell you. The safe in the Applegate library was opened. The loss will be about forty thousand dollars, I believe."\par
"We heard it was over a hundred thousand!" exclaimed Joe.\par
"Rumors always exaggerate. Forty thousand dollars is the figure Mr. Applegate puts It at. And it's quite enough, too. All in securities and jewels."\par
The Mansion Bobbery 6f\par
<Whew!" exclaimed Frank. "Quite a hauBS \i When \i0 did it happen!"\par
"Either last night or this morningo He dM not get up until after ten o'clock this morning and he did not go into the library until nearly ttoon. Then he discovered the theft."\par
"How was the safe opened?"\par
"It was either opened by some one who knew the combination or else by a very clever crook It wasn't dynamited at alL I'm going up tc the house in a few minutes. Mr. Applegate \i m to \i0 call for me."\par
"Can't we go along?" asked Joe eagerly\par
Mr. Hardy looked at his sons with a smile,\par
"Well, if you are so anxious to be detectives I suppose it is about as good a chance as an? to watch a crime investigation from the inside, If Mr. Applegate doesn't object, I suppose yos may come along."\par
In a few minutes an automobile drew up be fore the Hardy home. Mr. Applegate was sitting in the rear seat, resting his chin on Mi cane. When Mr. Hardy mentioned the boys request he merely grunted assent, so Joe and Frank clambered into the car with their father They were tremendously excited at the pros jpect of being "on the inside" in the mysteriotx? :<sase.\par
While the car bowled along over the cit^ wads toward the Tower Mansion that was\par
\i m \i0 The Tower Treasure\par
flioomily silhouetted against the sky, Mff, Hardy and Mr. Applegate discussed the rofcx teryc\par
"I don't really need a detective in this sase," snapped Hurd Applegate. "Don't need! raf. at alL It's as clear as the nose on youff Ifficeo I \i know \i0 who took the stuff. But I can*lj prove it,"\par
"Whom do you suspect?" asked Fenton Hardy.\par
\'8060nly one man in the world could have ftaken it. Kobinson!"\par
"Robinson?"\par
**Yes. Henry Kobinson-the caretaker He's the man."\par
The Hardy boys looked at one another iif oonsternation.\par
Henry Robinson, the caretaker of thd, Tower Mansion, was the father of one of their dlosest chums. Perry Robinson, nick-named C6Slim", was to have accompanied them on theiff Jaunt to the woods that day but had failed to appear. The reason was now evident.\par
But that Henry Robinson should be accused i\'aeff the robbery seemed absurd. The boys had! aaet Slim's father and he had appeared to them \'aes a good-natured, easy-going man, the soul <oS ferath and honesty.\par
**I don't believe it," whispered Frank,\par
^Neither do V returned nis brother\par
The Mansion Bobbery \i\'a7\'ae.\i0\par
3*What makes you suspect Eobinsonfss> asked Mr. Hardy of Hurd Applegate.\par
"He's the only person besides my sister and toe who ever saw that safe opened and closed, He could have learned the combination if \i h\'ae \i0 kept his eyes and ears open. 1 believe he did.*0\par
"But is that your only reason for suspecting Mm?"\par
"More than that. This morning he paid off a note at the bank. It was a note for nine hun\'b0 dred dollars, and I know for a fact that he didn't have more than one hundred dollars to liis name a few days ago. The Eobinsons have been hard up, for they had sickness in the family last winter and Henry Bobinson has had &\bullet  hard time meeting his debts since then. Now where did he raise nine hundred dollars sc suddenly!"\par
"Perhaps he has a good explanation," said! Mr. Hardy mildly. "It doesn't do to jump ai conclusions."\par
"Oh, he'll have an explanation all right!" sniffed Mr. Applegate. "But it will have to be a mighty good one to satisfy me."\par
"Luckily, he'll not have to satisfy Mr. Apple-gate, but will have to convince a jury-if it gete Siat far," whispered Joe in his brother's ear.\par
The automobile was speeding up the wick/ driveway that led to Tower Mansion, aMi mthin a few minutes it drew hd at the froi$\par
\i W \i0 The Tower Treasure\par
sn&trance. Mr. Applegate dismissed the drives \i -v smd \i0 Mr. Hardy and the two boys accompanied the eccentric man into the house.\par
Nothing had been disturbed in the libraiy since the discovery of the theft. Mr. Hardy examined the open safe, then drew a magnifying glass from his pocket and with minute car\'a9 Inspected the dial of the combination lock Then he examined the windows, the door-knobs, all places where there might be fingerprints. At last he shook his head.\par
"A smooth job," he observed. "The fellow must have worn gloves. Not a finger-print im the room."\par
"No need of looking for finger-prints," said Applegate. "It was Kobinson-that's who it was."\par
"Better send for him," advised Mr. Hardyr J*I'd like to ask him a few questions."\par
Mr, Applegate rang for one of the servants and instructed him to tell Mr. Robinson he was wanted in the library at once. Mr. Hardy glanced at the boys.\par
"You had better wait in the hallway," he suggested. "I want to ask some questions, and it might embarrass Mr. Robinson if you were here."\par
The lads readily withdrew, and in the hall way they met Henry Robinson, the caretaker, *nd his son P\'abrry= Mr. Robinson was cala\par
The Mansion Bobbery 61\par
\i but \i0 pale, and at the doorway he patted his ook mi the shoulder.\par
"Don't worry, son," he said. "It'll be al tight." With that he entered the library.\par
Slim Robinson turned to his two chums?\par
;*My dad is innocent!" he cried.\par
CHAPTER Vm\par
the aebest\par
fJ?HEBE was something in Perry Robinson^ lone that made Frank and Joe extremely sorry for their chum, for it seemed that the boy real" fized that the case looked black against his father.\par
Although the Hardy lads realized that it was only natural that Perry should stand up for Ms father, they shared some of his conviction i&at Mr. Robinson was not guilty.\par
"Of course he's innocent," agreed Frank, \bullet ^He'll be able to clear himself all rights, Perry."\par
"But everything looks pretty black against Mm," said Perry, who was pale and shaken, 156 Unless your father can catch the real thief I'm afraid dad will be blamed for it."\par
"Everybody knows your father is honest," said Joe consolingly. "He has a good recorS *-even Applegate will have to admit that."\par
"A good record won't help him very mucl Edf he is blamed for this and can't clear himself\par
Tbe Arrest\par
.And dad admits that lie did know the combimffi\'99 tion of the safe."\par
"He knew it?"\par
"Accidentally. He was cleaning the library fireplace one day when he found a slip of papei with numbers marked on it. The combination! was so simple that any one could remember it if he read it once. Dad didn't realize what il was until he had studied it a while, and them he put it back on Mr. Applegate's desk. Th\'a9 window was open and the breeze had blown th\'ae paper to the floor."\par
"Does Applegate know that?"\par
"Not yet. But dad is going to tell him nowc He says he knows it will look bad for him; bulk foe's going to tell the truth about it. He knew the combination, although of course he woulfi aever think of using it."\par
From the library came the dull hum of voices. The harsh tones of Hurd Applegat\'ae occasionally rose above the murmur of conversation and once the boys heard Mr. Robinson^ voice rise sharply.\par
"I \i didn't \i0 do it I tell you I \i didn't \i0 take thaS aaoney."\par
"Then where did you get the nine hundroffl you paid on that note?" demanded Mr. AppS<& gate.\par
There was silence for a while,\par
"Where did you get it?"\par
ftl The Tower Treasure\par
"Itn not at liberty to tell you.**\par
\'ab*You won't tell?"\par
"I can't."\par
"Why not?"\par
"I got the money honestly-that's all I ca& iay about it."\par
"Oh, ho!" exclaimed Applegate. "You got the money honestly, yet you can't tell me where it came from! That's very likely, isn't it? If you got it honestly you shouldn't be ashamed to tell where you got it."\par
"I'm not ashamed. But I*m not at liberty 'to tell."\par
" Mighty funny thing that you should get nine hundred dollars so quickly. You were pretty hard up last week, weren't you? Had to ask for an advance on your month's wages."\par
"I admit it."\par
"And then the day of this robbery you sud-Senly have nine hundred dollars that you cant axplain."\par
Mr. Hardy's calm voice broke in.\par
"Of course, I don't like to pry into your private affairs, Mr. Robinson," he said; "but It would be best if you could clear up this matter of the money. You must admit yourself that it doesn't look promising."\par
"I know it looks bad," replied the caretaker doggedly. "But I cant tell you where that \'abaoney came from,"\par
The Arrest 6\'a3\par
"And you admit knowing the combination of the safe, too!" broke in Applegate. "I didnf know that before. Why didn 't you tell me \i 1\i0 "\par
"I didn't consider it important enough, ji aad found the combination by accident and \i I \i0 had no intention of using it. As a matter of fact, I don't think I could remember it accu rately right now. I just put the paper back and decided to say nothing about it, to save trouble."\par
"And yet you come and tell me about i$ aow!"\par
"I have nothing to conceal. If I had takem the money I wouldn't very likely be telling yo$ now that I knew the combination."\par
"Yes," agreed Mr. Hardy, "that's a point in your favor."\par
"Is it?" asked Applegate. "You're just clever enough to think up a trick like that, Robinson. You think that if you come to me now and admit you knew the combination Pit! believe that you are so honest that you couldn ** kave committed this robbery. Very clever But not clever enough. There's enough evi dence right here and now to convict you, and \'a3'm not going to delay another minute."\par
There was the sound of a telephone receive: being lifted, and then Applegate's voice eon (dnued-\par
'Police station,*1 After a short waits fefc\par
156 The Tower Treasure\par
went on. "Hello-police station!-This ib Applegate speaking-Applegate-Hurd Apple-gate.-Well, I think we've found our man.-In that robbery.-Yes, Eobinson.-You thought so8 \'aeh?-So did I, but I wasn't sure.-He has practically convicted himself by his own story.-' Yes, I want him arrested.-You 11 be up right away ?-Fine.-Good-bye."\par
The telephone tinkled.\par
"You're not going to have me arrested, Mr, Applegate?"\par
"Why not? You took the money I"\par
"But I'm innocent! I swear it! Haven't I always been honest, ever since I came to work for you? Have you ever had any fault to find with me?"\par
"Not until now," returned Applegate grimly.\par
"It might have been better to wait a while," suggested Mr. Hardy mildly. "Of course, it is entirely in your hands, Mr. Applegate, and I admit the case looks rather bad against Mr. Eobinson. But perhaps some more evidence may turn up."\par
"What more evidence do we want? The man's guilty. It's as plain as the nose on your face. If he wants to return the rest of the jewels and securities I'll see what can be done toward having the charge reduced-but that'e all"\par
The Arrest 6?\par
"But I can't return them! \i I \i0 didn't take iiem!"\par
"I suppose you have them hidden safely away by now, hoping to get them when you get out of penitentiary, eh? It'll he a long time, Eobinson-a long time."\par
In the hallway, the hoys listened in growing \'aexcitement. The case had taken an abrupt and tragic turn. Both the Hardy boys were sorry for their chum Slim, who looked as though he might collapse under the strain.\par
"He's innocent," muttered the boy, over and over again. "I \i know \i0 he's innocent. They can't arrest him. My dad never stole a dollat in his life!"\par
Frank patted him on the shoulder.\par
"Brace up, old chap," he advised. "It looks pretty bad just now, but your father will be able to clear himself, never fear."\par
"I-111 have to tell mother-", stammered Slim. "This will break her heart. And my sisters-"\par
Frank and Joe led him down through the nallway and along a corridor that led to @. wing of the mansion, where the Eobinson fam sly had rooms. There, in a neat, but sparsely furnished apartment, they found Mrs. Eobin son, a gentle, kindly-faced woman, somewhat; Kame, who was sitting anxiously in a chair by (the windoWo Her two daughterss Paula an<j\par
68 The Tower Treasure\par
Tessie, twins, were by her side, and all looked \i up \i0 in expectation as the lads came in.\par
"What news, son?" asked Mrs. Eobinson bravely, after she had greeted the Hardy boys,\par
"Bad, mother."\par
"They're not-they're not-arresting him?" cried Paula, springing forward.\par
Perry nodded, dumbly.\par
"But they can't!" cried Tessie protestingly., "He's innocent! He \i couldn't \i0 do anything like that! It's wrong-''\par
Mrs. Eobinson began to cry, quite silentlyo Perry went over to his mother and awkwardly patted her shoulder, his face white and stern. The twins gazed at one another with desperate uyes.\par
Frank and Joe, their hearts too full for utter unce, withdrew softly from the room.\par
CHAPTERS bed haib\par
the arrest of Henry Robinson caused a sen sation in Bayport, for the caretaker of Towel Mansion was one of the last men in the cit^ whom one would have suspected of dishonesty There was a great deal of public sympathy foi the family, but little for the accused, as most people seemed to take it for granted that h\'ab would not have been arrested if he had not had something to do with the crime.\par
But the Hardy boys were not satisfied.\par
"I'm positive Henry Robinson is innocent,* said Frank to his brother the next morning, "There's a great deal about this case that hasn't come to the surface yet. 1 have a sort of sneaking idea that the man who stole Chet Morton's car had something to do with this."\par
"He was a criminal-that much is certain,'5 agreed Joe. "He stole an automobile and he tried to hold up the ticket office."\par
"I'd like to go back to the place where w\'a9 saw the wrecked car. You never know wha\'a3\par
TO The Tower Treasure\par
\'a9vidence we might find. There might be sott$ thing there that would identify the chap,,"\par
"I'm with you. Let's go this morning.'*\par
So within the hour the boys were on theiiF motorcycles, speeding along the shore roadl toward the place where the speed fiend's caff liad been wrecked in the bushes.\par
"I'd certainly like to do something to help dear Mr. Robinson," said Frank. "It's pretty tough on Slim and his mother and sisters."\par
"'We probably won't be able to do very much,, If dad can't clear him, I don't think we cam help a great deal. But it's worth while trying."\par
"It sure is. And I've had a hunch all along that we didn't investigate the wreck of that car closely enough."\par
"Well, we'll make a thorough job of it this time."\par
When the boys reached the scene of the wreck they found the smashed car just where they had seen it last. The tires had been taken and some of the accessories that had escaped destruction had been stripped from the automobile, but the car had been so badly smashed that there were few evidences of disturbances\par
Leaving their motorcycles by the side of the road, the lads plunged down into the bushes and busied themselves examining the wreckage. Joe hunted through the side pockets in the hope that there might be papers or some\par
Bed Hair W\par
Other means of identification, but in this he was disappointed. There were no license plates, but Prank managed to secure the engine number, and this he jotted down in a notebook he carried,\par
"Perhaps this will give us a clue. Although I have an idea that the fellow got this car in the same way he got Chet's. It's probably a stolen automobile."\par
For a time they rummaged around among the wreckage without success. Then, at last, Frank gave a low cry.\par
\i 1\i0 ' Here's something!" he exclaimed. '' Look!'\par
Joe came over to where he was standing. and Frank plucked something from the front seat of the wrecked car.\par
"Red hair!"\par
In his hand Frank held a small tuft of vivid ffed hair. It was very coarse in texture, and the surprising part of it was that the hairs were not separate but were attached to a sort of tough linen.\par
"Why, it's part of a wig I" said Frank, examining the hair more closely.\par
'You're right," agreed his brother. "N<S human hair ever grew like that."\par
"Part of the fellow's wig was torn when the car was smashed up!"\par
"And that explains why Harrity and his wit ness couldn't agree on the color of the fellow's Siairl" exclaimed Joe, in excitement.\par
12 The Tower Treasure\par
'I see it now! The man didn't wear the wig when he held up the steamboat office, and the ttdnute he reached the car he put it on again. That explains why Brown saw a red-haired man driving away in Chet's roadster and why Harrity was positive that man wasn't redheaded."\par
"That's a \i real \i0 clue!" exclaimed Joe. "We ought to tell dad about this."\par
"And we will, too," said Frank, beginning to scramble through the bushes back toward the ?oad.\par
He put the fragment of the red wig carefully in an inner pocket, and then the Hardy boys started back toward Bayport. The clue was slight, of course, but, still, it served to clear up the disagreement as to the color of the hold-up man's hair. It also served to prove conclusively that the man who had passed Frank and Joe on the shore road at such break-neck speed, and who had later wrecked his car, was the same man who had stolen Chet's roadster and had attempted to hold up the steamboat ticket office.\par
"I guess dad will think we aren't such poor detectives after all," Joe exulted, as they brought their motorcycles to a stop in the yard of the Hardy home.\par
Their father was in the library, but in their sxcitement the lads forgot to rap at the doof\par
Red Hair W\par
and rushed into the room without ceremony*\par
"Dad, we've found a clue!" cried Joe, whem he saw his father sitting at the huge oak desk, Then he fell back, embarrassed, when he saw that there was some one else in the room.\par
"Beg pardon!" said Frank, and the boys would have retreated, but Mr. Hardy's visitor turned around and they saw that it was Perry Robinson.\par
"It's only me," said Slim. "Don't go."\par
"Perry has been trying to shed a little mors light on the Tower robbery," explained Mr. Hardy. "But what is this clue you are talking of?"\par
"It isn't about the robbery," replied Frank "Although it \i might \i0 have something to do with it, for all we know. It's about the red-headed man who stole Chet's car and who tried to hol<? np the steamboat ticket office."\par
''What about him?"\par
"This!" said Frank, taking the fragment of red hair from his pocket and showing it to hie father. "The fellow wore a wig."\par
Mr. Hardy examined the little taft of hail closely.\par
"Where did you find it?" he asked.\par
"la the wreckage of that smashed car."\par
Mr. Hardy nodded,,\par
"That seems to link up a pretty good chaia .\'ab<f evidence The man who passed you on the\par
$4 The Tower Treasure\par
shore road wrecked his car, then stole Chet*\'a9 roadster and afterward tried to hold up the ticket office. When he failed in that he abandoned the roadster. He wore a red wig that he took off occasionally to confuse pursuers, If we could only find the wig we might he able to get further information."\par
"Do you think it might help us solve the Tower robbery?" asked Perry.\par
"Possibly."\par
"The man was evidently a professional thief," explained Frank. "If he was smart enough to wear a wig he was evidently an old-timer at the game. And if he failed in the ticket office hold-up, who knows but what he might nave been hanging around the city waiting for another chance."\par
"Gosh, you may be right, at that!" exclaimed Perry. "I was just telling your father that I saw a strange man lurking about the grounds of Tower Mansion two days before the robbery, I didn't think anything of it at the time, and in the shock of dad's arrest I forgot about it."\par
"Did you get a good look at him? Could you describe him?" asked the detective.\par
"I'm afraid I couldn't. It was in the eve* ming, and I was sitting by the window, study-ing. I happened to look up and I saw this fellow moving about under the trees near the wall* Later on I heard one of the dogs barking in au-\par
Bed Hair 7S\par
other part of the grounds, and shortly after* ward I saw some one running across the lawn, But I thought it was probably just a tramp.96\par
"Did he wear a hat or a cap?"\par
"As near as I can remember, it was a capb IHis clothes were dark."\par
"And you couldn't see his face?"\par
"No."\par
"Well, it's not much to go on, but it might be linked up with Frank's idea that the man who stole the roadster might have still been hanging around." Mr. Hardy thought deeply for a few moments. "I am going to bring all these facts to Mr. Applegate's attention and I am also go= ing to have a talk with the police authorities^ I don't think they have enough evidence to warrant holding your father, Perry."\par
"Do you think you can have him released?" asked the boy eagerly.\par
"I'm sure of it. In fact, I think Mr. Apple-gate is beginning to realize now that he made a mistake and I don't think the police are any too anxious to go ahead with the case on the meager evidence in their possession."\par
"It will be wonderful if we can have dad back with us again," said Perry. "Although it won't be quite the same. He'll be under a cloud as long as this mystery isn't cleared up. AncJ of course Mr. Applegate won't employ \ul him\ulnone  any more"\par
^6 The Tower Treasure\par
" All the more reason why we should get busy and clear up the affair," returned Mr. Hardy. "You boys can help."\par
"How?"\par
*'By keeping your eyes and ears open and toy using your wits. That's all there is to de= Sective work."\par
"Well, you can just bet that if it will clear Slim's dad we'll be listening and looking foff clue there is,'* Joe assured his father\par
CHAPTER X an impobtant discovbby\par
when the Hardy boys returned from schocw next afternoon they saw that a crowd had col lected about the bulletin board in the post cffice.\par
"Wondpr what's up now?" said Joe, pushing 11s way forward. Boylike, he was able to make las way through the crowd with the agility of fa eel, and Frank was not slow in following.\par
On the board was a large poster, the ink on which was scarcely dry. At the top, in enormous black letters, they read:\par
$1000 REWARD\par
Underneath, in slightly smaller type, cams the following:\par
The above reward will be paid for informa\'bb Hon. leading to the arrest of the person or persons who broke into Tower Mansion and stole from a safe in the library jewels and securi ties, as follows-\par
IT\par
18 The Tower Treasure\par
Then came a list of the jewels and negotiable bonds that had been taken from Tower Mansion,, the jewels being fully described and the numbers of the bonds being given. It was announced that the reward was offered by HurcB Applegate.\par
"Why, that must mean that the charge against Mr. Robinson has been dropped!" ex claimed Joe.\par
"It looks like it. Let's go and see if we can't find Slim."\par
All about them people were commenting on the size of the reward, and there were many expressions of envy for the person who should be fortunate enough to solve the mystery.\par
"A thousand dollars!" said Frank, as they made their way out of the post office. "That'a a lot of money, Joe."\par
"I'll say it is."\par
"And there's no reason why we haven't as good a chance of getting it as any one else."\par
"Golly-if we only could!"\par
"Why not? Let's get at this case in real \'a9arnest. Of course, we would do what we could anyway, but-"\par
" A thousand dollars 1"\par
"It's worth trying for.'*\par
"Dad and the police are barred from the re=> wari, for it's their duty to find the thief if they /san But if we find him we get the money,,"\par
An Important Discovery 78>\par
*'And we'll have the satisfaction of clearing Mr. Eobinson too. Joe, let's get at this case in earnest. We have some clues right now, and we can follow them up."\par
"I'm with you. But there's Slim now."\par
Perry Robinson was coming down the streel toward them. He looked much happier than he had been the previous evening, and when he s&,w the Hardy boys his face lighted up.\par
"Dad is free," he told them. "Thanks to your father. The charge has been dropped."\par
"Gee, but I'm glad to hear that!" exclaimed Joe. "I see they're offering a reward."\par
"Your father convinced Mr. Applegate that it must have been an outside job. That is, that it was the work of a professional crook. And the police admitted there wasn't much evidence against dad, so they let him go. I tell you, it was a great thing for my mother and sisters. They were almost crazy with worry."\par
'' No wonder,'' commented Frank. '' What is your father going to do now?"\par
"Idon't know," Slim admitted heavily. "Of Bourse, we've had to move out of Tower Mansion. Mr. Applegate said that while the charge laad been dropped, he wasn't altogether con\'ab vinced in his own mind that dad hadn't had something to do with it. So he dismissed him.9*\par
"That's tough luck. But he'U be able to geft .another job somewhere,"\par
HJ The Tower Treasure\par
"I'm not so sure about that. People arent likely to employ a man that's been suspected of stealing. Dad tried two or three places this afternoon, but he was turned down."\par
The Hardy boys were silent. They were sorry for the Kobinsons, for they knew only too well that the family were badly off financially and that in view of the robbery it would indeed be difficult for Mr. Eobinson to get an-0ther position.\par
"We've rented a small house just outside the city," went on Slim. "It is cheap, and we'll have to get along." There was no false pride about Perry Eobinson. He faced the facts as they came, and made the best of them. "But if dad doesn't get a job it will mean that I'll have to go to work."\par
"But, Slim-you'd have to quit school!"\par
"I can't help that. I wouldn't want to, foit you know I was trying for the class medal thi\'a7 year. But-oh, well-"\par
The Hardy boys realized how much it woul<i! mean to their chum to leave school at this stage, Perry Robinson was an ambitious boy and on\'a9 of the cleverest in his class. He had always wanted to continue his studies, go to a university, and his teachers had predicted a brilliant career for him. Now it seemed that all his am," bitions would have to be thrown overboard be cause of this misfortune.\par
An Important Discovery 81\par
"Don't worry, Slim," comforted Frank. ** Joe and I are going to plug away at this affair nntil we get at the bottom of it."\par
"It's mighty good of you, fellows," said Slim gratefully. "I won't forget it in a hurry. You've been pretty white to me all through this-"\par
"Aw, shucks!" muttered Frank, embarrassed. "It's the reward we're after. Apple-gate is offering a thousand dollars."\par
"Oh, I know it isn't altogether the reward. You would do it to help us anyway, and you know it. Look what you've already done!"\par
"Well, we're going to get busy," Joe said hastily. "See you later, Slim. Don't worry too much. I think everything will be all right."\par
Slim tried to smile, but it was evident that he was deeply worried, and when he walked away it was not with the light, springy, carefree step his chums had previously known.\par
"What's the first move, Frank!"\par
aWe had better get a full description of those jewels. Perhaps the thief tried to pawn them. We can call at all the pawnshops and see what we can find out. Then we may be able to get a line on the thief. You know, he might pawa something here-if he had to have money with which to get out of town."\par
"Good idea! Do you think Applegate wil give us a list?"\par
82 The Tower Treasure\par
"We won't have to ask him. Dad should have all that information."\par
"Let's go and ask him right now."\par
But when the lads returned home and asked their father for a description of the jewels, they; met with a disappointment.\par
"I'm quite willing to give you all that information," said Fenton Hardy; "but I don't think it will be much use. Furthermore, I'll bet I can tell just what you are going to do."\par
"What?"\par
"You're going to make the rounds of the pawnshops and see if any of the jewels have been turned in."\par
The Hardy boys looked at one another in consternation.\par
"How did you ever guess that?" asked Frank.\par
Their father smiled.\par
"Because it is just what I have already done. Not an hour after I was called in on the case I Ihad a full description of all those jewels in every pawnshop in the city. More than that, the description has been sent to jewelry firms and pawnshops in other cities near here, and also to the New York police. Here's a duplicate list if you want it, but you'll just be wasting time by going around to the shops. They are all oo 4he lookout for the stuff."\par
Mechanically, Frank took the list\par
An Important Discovery 8$\par
*'And \i I \i0 thought it was such a bright ideaPs\par
"It is a bright idea. But it has been used before. Most jewel robberies are solved in just this manner-by tracing the thief when he tries to get rid of the gems."\par
"Well," said Joe gloomily, "I guess \i thai \i0 plan is all shot to pieces. Come on, Frank, We'll think of something else."\par
"Out after the reward, eh?" said Mr. Hardy shrewdly.\par
"Yes; and we'll get it, too!"\par
*'I hope you do. But you can't ask me to help you any more than I've done. It's my case too, remember. So from now on, you are part of my opposition."\par
"It's a go!"\par
"More power to you, then," and Mr. Hardy returned to his desk. He had a sheaf of re= ports from shops and agencies in various parts of the State, through which he had been trying to trace the stolen jewels and securities, bute In every case the report was the same. There had been no trace of the gems or bonds taken from Tower Mansion.\par
When the boys left their father's study they went outside and sat on the back steps, silently ;?egarding their motorcycles.\par
"What shall we do now?" asked Joe.\par
*'I don't know. Dad sure took the wind o\'aef\'b0 <\'a7$ our sails that timeg didn't hef "\par
84 The Tower Treasure\par
''I'll say he did. But it was just as "vrelL Saved us a lot of trouble.'*\par
"We might have been going around to all the pawnshops in the city and not getting any where."\par
" Looks as if dad has the inside track on the case, anyway. If any of the jewels are turned in he will be the first to hear of it. What chance Slave we?"\par
"I'm hanged if I'll give up!" declared Frank, with determination. "We know that there was a strange man hanging around Tower Mansion and we know that there was a redheaded crook in town. Perhaps those two facts aren't connected, but I think they are. And we know he stole Chet's roadster."\par
"And left it in the woods."\par
"Yes-and say, Joe! We didn't take much time to look around when that roadster was found, did we?"\par
'' What was the use ? The roadster was there and Chet got it back."\par
"No, but the man who stole the car had been fthere too. Perhaps he left some clue."\par
Joe slapped his knee with an open hand.\par
"I never thought of that, Frank. Let's go right back there now."\par
"Come on."\par
Eagerly, the Hardy boys dashed over to theiit tootorcycleso In a few minutes they were speed\par
An Important Discovery 85\par
Sng through the streets of Bayport, out toward the woods where Chet Morton's roadster had been abandoned.\par
They were fired with enthusiasm again, im spite of the momentary setback they had received when their father squelched Frank's plan of going around to the pawnshops. They felt now that they were on a new trail.\par
They came to the abandoned road that lecl into the woods and they brought their motorcycles as far as possible, finally leaving them by the roadside and going ahead on foot, Frank located the place where the roadster had been driven off into the woods, for the trees were still bent and broken, and the two boys plunged into the depths of the thickets.\par
At last the Hardy boys emerged into the little cleared space where the roadster had been found. Everything was just as they had left ito They examined the ground carefully.\par
"He might have dropped letters from his pocket, or something," said Joe hopefully, as they explored the clearing.\par
But the auto thief had not been so carelesSo There was not even a footprint, for the boys had trampled the ground thoroughly after the roadster had been discovered.\par
"If I had only thought to look for footprints at the time!" groaned Joe, in disappointment\par
*'Or finger-prints. He must have left finger\par
^6 The Tower Treasure\par
sprints somewhere about the car. If he was 8$ professional crook we could have traced hini easily."\par
'' Too late now. Chet has had the car washed since then-we didn't think of it in time." ' Their search was without success, and the* Hardy boys were about to give up in disappointment when Frank left the clearing and began tQ hunt about in the bushes.\par
"1 guess we might as well go home," said Joe. "We've come hunting for clues too late, If we had any sense we would have looked for finger-prints and-"\par
He was interrupted by a shout from his brother.\par
"Joe? Come here, quick! I've found something!"\par
There was no mistaking the excitement in Frank's voice. Joe lost no time in scrambling (through the bushes until he reached his brother's side.\par
Frank was standing in the midst of a thickets, folding up something red and bushy.\par
It was a wig!\par
"The red wig!" exclaimed Joe, his eyes wid\'ab timing.\par
"Not only the wig," replied Frank. "But S;his-" and he bent over to pick up a battered Jhat from the ground. "And this I" WheffSN TO>on he picked up a worn coat\par
An Important Discovery \i &?\i0\par
3(5They belong to the crook!*'\par
""It couldn't have been any one else^ \i IBM must \i0 have disguised himself here and left fe wig and things m the bush whext he abandonee 1^\'a9 \'ab&**\bullet\par
CHAPTER XI mb. habdy investigates\par
Tmj Hardy boys looked at one another is (flowing excitement.\par
"What ought we do about it?" asked Joe.\par
"I'm going to tell dad what we've found.'*\par
"But didn't he say he would be working the case on his own and that we would be opposition?"\par
"This is different. We have a real clue here, but we don't know how to use it. You can bet dad will know what to do. He '11 act fairly with Tfls. If it leads to anything, he '11 see that we get credit for what we've done."\par
"I guess you're right, Frank. This is a little too big for us to handle ourselves. But imagine ifinding that wig! What luck!''\par
"There's nothing else around, is there? Let's look."\par
Although the Hardy boys scoured the woods m that vicinity thoroughly, they found nothing More. But the wig, the hat and the coat gave promise of interesting developments. Fraafe\par
Mr, Harfly investigates\par
annted through all the pockets of the coat in the faint hope of finding something that would! Identify the previous wearer, but in this he was 'disappointed.\par
So they went back to the abandoned road and remounted their motorcycles, returning to Bay-port with the articles they had found in the woods.\par
Their disappointment had turned to jubila tion, for now they felt that they were definitely on the trail of the mysterious man in the red wig, and while ostensibly there was no connee tion between this fellow and the thief who had robbed Tower Mansion, Frank had, as he said? *'a hunch" that the auto thief and the robber of the mansion were one and the same man.\par
"If we ever lay our hands on the man who stole Chet's roadster I'm sure we'll have gone a long way toward solving the Tower affair/s said Frank to his brother. "I may be wrongp but I have an idea that the fellow was a professional crook who first set out to rob the steamboat office. Then, when he was frightened! off, he hung around the city and waited hia chance to rob Tower Mansion."\par
Mr. Hardy was still in the library when the\par
boys returned home. The great detective was\par
frankly surprised when his sons again entered\par
the room, and he looked up with the suspicion \'a9j?\par
...a twinkle in his eyes.\par
TO The Tower Treasure\par
"What! More clues!"he exclaimed. "Surely mot so soon."\par
"You bet we have more clues!" exclaimed! Frank eagerly. "And real clues this time, We're going to turn them over to you."\par
"But I thought the two of you were working j\'a9n this case in your own way. Bemember, I'itt She opposition."\par
"Well, to tell the truth, we don't know just what to do with what we've found," admitted Prank. "And, anyway, we know you'll he fair with us, so it doesn't matter. Look!"\par
And with that he tossed the red wig on the tahle. He kept the coat and hat hehind his back.\par
Fenton Hardy leaned forward quickly and picked up the wig with an inquiring glance at Ms sons.\par
" So!" he murmured. '' You found the wig T"\par
He examined it intently. Then he opened a drawer of his desk and produced the fragment of wig that the hoys had found in the smashed \'a9ar hy the road. This he applied to a torn part of the wig itself. It fitted perfectly.\par
s<It's the wig all right," he declared, looking nap. "Where did you find it? By the smashed\par
"No. Hidden in the hushes near the place where Chet's roadster was found." Mr, Hardy whistled solemnly.\par
Mr. Hardy investigates 91\par
"Good work." He turned the wig over and \'aever in his hands, carefully examined it under a inicroscope, and then tossed it back on the desk,\par
"There aren't so many wigs sold that one pan't trace them,'' he observed. '' This happens to be made by a small company that doesn't turn out a great many wigs in a year. It's a sort of side line with them."\par
"How can you tell?"\par
"There's a little mark on the inside that distinguishes the manufacturer. Just a trademark-hardly noticeable."\par
"And we found these as well," said Frankj handing over the coat and hat.\par
Mr. Hardy's eyes opened wide.\par
"Well, well!" he exclaimed. "You \i havk \i0 been busy, haven't you?"\par
"They were all hidden in the same place."\par
"And well hidden, too, I'll warrant."\par
"We were sure there must be clues of some kind around that car, so we searched every inch of the woods roundabout."\par
"Good!" said Mr. Hardy approvingly. "You didn't miss any chances. I'm not saying these clues will lead to the capture of the fellow, but they will go a long way toward find-Ing him."\par
"What should we do with them?"\par
Mr. Hardy looked up at his sons and smiled,\par
a(!Well, you've shared your clues with me, s$\par
92 The Tower Treasure\par
I suppose I may as well share some of my ex-perience with you. What do you say if I go to the city and try to trace up some of these labels? This hat, for instance-" and he picked it up from the table, examining the band intently, \i 6\i0 'There is a label here. Of course, the hat may liave been sold a long time ago, and it isn't likely that the man who sold it would remember who bought it. But there is always the chance that the store may not be far from where the fellow lives. You get my idea? And the coat, too, If we can find any trace of who bought the wig we may be able to connect up the other things as well."\par
"Gosh, I never thought of that!" admitted Frank.\par
"It's a slim chance, but, as I said before, we can't afford to overlook any chances. I'll tak\'ae them to the city and see what I can do. It may mean everything and it may mean nothingo Don't be disappointed if I come back empty-handed. And don't be surprised if I come back with some valuable information."\par
Mr. Hardy tossed the wig, the coat and the iiat into a club bag that was standing open near Ms desk. The great detective was accustomed \bullet\bullet Jo being called away suddenly on strange er\'ab )Fands, and he was always prepared to leave sat a moment's notice.\par
'"Not much use starting now," he\par
JSfr, Hardy Investigates 9\'a7>\par
glancing at Ms watch. '"But I'll go to the city the first thing in the morning. In the meantime, don't rest on your oars, as the saying is, Keep your eyes and your ears open for mor\'ae clues. The case isn't over yet by any means."\par
Mr. Hardy picked up some papers on M$ desk, as a hint that the interview was over, aikl the boys left the library. They were in a stat\'ae of high excitement, for they were confident now that they had made valuable progress in the' case and fhey were sure that if the wig and the garments could be of any use at all toward locating the crook, Mr. Hardy would be the man to nse them.\par
When they went to bed that night they could hardly sleep, so elated were they over their discovery near the abandoned roadway.\par
"He must have been a pretty smart crook,n' murmured Joe, after they had talked long into the night. '' That idea about the wig was clever,, I'll bet he was an experienced guy!"\par
"The smarter they are, the harder they fall,n replied Frank. "It's the experienced crook that the police always look for. If this fello\\s has any kind of a record at all it won't take long for dad to run him down. I've heard dad say that there is no such thing as a clever crook. H\par
lie was really clever he wouldn't be a crook at\par
L\'bb\'bb\par
"Yes, I guess there's something in that, toos\par
94 The Tower Treasure\par
But it shows that we're not up against any or5M nary amateur. This fellow must be a slippery customer."\par
"He'll have to be mighty slippery from now on. Once dad has a few clues to work on he never lets up till he gets his man."\par
"Well, let's hope he gets this one. He'll think a lot more of us as detectives if he does." And with that, the boys fell asleep.\par
When they went down to breakfast the following morning they found that Fenton Hardy ihad left for New York on an early morning 4rain.\par
The Hardy boys went to school, but all through that morning they could scarcely keep their minds on their work. Their thoughts were far afield. They were wondering how Fenton Hardy was faring on his quest in New York and it was not until after Frank had drawn a reprimand from one of his teachers because he absent-mindedly answered, "Bed wig," when asked to name the capital of Kansas that they settled down to work and tried to put the affair of the wig and the abandoned clothes from their minds.\par
Slim Robinson was at school that day, but after four o'clock he confided to the Hardy boys that he was leaving.\par
"It's no use," he said. "Father can't keep me in school any longer and it's up to me \i i&\i0\par
\bullet jut. Hardy Investigates 9\'a3f\par
pitch in and help the family. I'm to start work to-morrow for a grocery company."\par
"And you wanted to go to college I" exclaimed Frank. "It's a shame, that's what ift is!"\par
"Can't be helped," replied Perry, with \'ae grimace. \i "I \i0 can consider myself lucky I got this far. I guess I'll have to give up all thos\'a9 ideas now and settle down to learn the grocery business. There's one good thing about it- I'll have a chance to learn it from the ground up. I'm starting in the delivery department. Perhaps in about fifty years I'll be head of th\'a9 firm."\par
"You'll make good at whatever you tackle," Joe assured him. "But I'm sorry you won 'ft be able to go through college as you wished Don't give up hope yet, Slim. You never know what may happen. Perhaps they'll find this fellow who \i did \i0 rob Tower Mansion."\par
Both boys wanted to tell their chum about the clues they had discovered the previous day5 but the same thought was in their minds-that $t would be unwise to raise false hopes. It would go much harder with Perry, they knew, If he began to think the capture of the thie^ Was imminent, only to have the hope dashedl to earth again. So they said good-bye to him and wished him good luck. Perry tried hard to .be cheerful, but his smile was very faint as H\'a9\par
$6 The Tower Treasure\par
turned away from them and walked off down the \'a7treet.\par
"Gosh, but I'm sorry for him," said Frank as they went home. "He was such a hard worker in school and he counted so much on going to college."\par
"We've just \i got \i0 to clear up the Tower robbery, that's all there is to itl" declared his brother.\par
"Perhaps dad is back by now. There's a train from New York at three o'clock. Let's hurry home and see."\par
But when the Hardy boys arrived home they found that their father had not yet returned from the city.\par
"We'll just have to be patient, I guess,'9 s\'bbid Frank. "No news is good news."\par
And with this philosophic reflection the Hardy boys were obliged to comfort themselves against the impatience that possessed them to learn what progress their father was making in the city toward following up the clues had given him*\par
CHAPTER XBt\par
days op waiting\par
fenton hardy had high hopes of a qtiick solution of the mystery when he went to New York. Possession of the wig, the hat and th\'a9 coat gave him three clues, any one of which might lead to tracing the previous owner quickly, and the detective was confident that it would not he long before he would unravel the tangled threads. He had not stated his optimism to the boys, being careful not to arouse their hopes, but in his heart he thought it would be but a matter of hours before he ran the owner of the red wig to earth.\par
But obstacles presented themselves before him in bewildering succession.\par
The wig appeared to be his chief clue, and when he arrived in the city he went directly to the head office of the company that had manufactured it. "When he sent his card in to th<S manager he was readily admitted, for Fenton, Hardy's name was known from the Atlanti\'a9 to the Pacific.\par
98 The Tower Treasure\par
"Some of our customers in trouble, Hardy?" asked the manager, when the great detective tossed the red wig on his desk.\par
"Not yet. But one of your customers \i will \i0 be \'a7n trouble if I can ever trace the purchaser of this wig."\par
The manager picked it up. He inspected it carefully and frowned.\par
"We are not, as you know, a wig-making firm," he said. "That is, the wig department is a very small side line with us."\par
"The very reason I thought it would be easier to trace this," replied Mr. Hardy. "If you turned out thousands of them every year it might be more difficult. You sell to an exclusive theatrical trade, I believe."\par
"Exactly. If an actor wants a wig of some special nature, we do our best to please him. We only make the wigs to order."\par
"Then you will probably have a record of this one."\par
The manager turned the wig over in his lands, glanced carefully at the inside, felt of the weight and texture, then pressed a button at the side of his desk. A boy came and departed with a message.\par
"It may be difficult. This wig is not new. In fact, I would say it was turned out about two years ago."\par
"A lone time. But still-"\par
Days of Waiting 9S>\par
"I'll do the best lean."\par
A bespectacled old man shuffled into the office at that moment, in response to the manager's summons, and stood waiting in front of the desk,\par
"Kauffman, here," said the manager, "is our expert. What he doesn't know about wigs isn 't worth knowing.'' Then, turning to the old man, he handed him the red wig. "Bemember it, Kauffman?"\par
The old man looked at it doubtfully. Then he gazed at the ceiling.\par
"Bed wig . . . red wig . . ." he muttered,\par
"About two years old, isn't it?" prompted the manager.\par
"Not quite. Year'n a half, I'd say. Looks like a comedy character type. "Wait'111 think There ain't been, so many of our customers playin' that kind of a part inside a year and a half. Let's see. Let's see." The old man paced up and down the office, muttering names tinder his breath. Suddenly, he stopped, snapping his fingers.\par
"I have it," he said. "It must have been Morley who bought that wig. That's who it was! Harold Morley. He is playing in Shakespearian repertoire with Hamlin's company0 Very fussy about his wigs. Has to have 'em just so. I remember he bought this one because he came in here about a month ago and ordered another just like it."\par
100 The Tower Treasure\par
\'ab\'abWhy would he do that?" asked Mr. Hardy,\par
Kauffman shrugged his shoulders.\par
"Ain't none of my business. Lots of actors keep a double set of wigs. Morley's playin" down at the Crescent Theater right now. Call Mm up."\par
* * I '11 go and see him,'' said Mr. Hardy, rising, *" You 're sure he is the man who ordered that wig?"\par
"Positive!" replied Kauffman, looking hurt, "I know every wig that goes out of my shop. I give 'em all my pers'nal attention. Morley got the wig-and he got another like it a month ago. I remember."\par
"Kauffman is right," put in the manager, "Morley has a very good account with us. If Kauffman says he remembers the wig, it must be so."\par
"Well, thank you for your trouble," answered Fenton Hardy. "I may be able to see Mr. Morley in his dressing room if I hurry. It lacks about half an hour of theater time."\par
"You'll just about make it. Glad to have been of service, Mr. Hardy. Any time we cam do anything for you, just ask."\par
"Thank you," and Fenton Hardy shook hands with Kauffman and the manager, theE left the office, bound for the Crescent Theaters\par
But the detective's hopes were not as high a\'ae Ahoy had been. He knew that Morley, the actors\par
Days of Waiting 101\par
was certainly not the man who had worn the wig on the day the roadster was stolen, for the Shakespearian company of which Morley was a member had been playing a three months' run in New York. It would be impossible for the actor to get away from the theater long enough for such an escapade, just as it was improbable that he would even try to do so.\par
He presented his card to a suspicious door\'99 man at the Crescent and was finally admitted backstage and shown down a brilliantly lighted corridor to the dressing room of Harold Morley. It was a snug little place, the dressing room, for Morley had fitted it up to suit his own tastes once it was assured that the company would remain at the Crescent for an extended run. There were pictures on the walls, a potted plant in the window overlooking the alleyway, and a rug on the floor.\par
Seated before a mirror with electric lights at either side, was a stout little man, almost totally bald. He was diligently rubbing cold cream on his face, and when Fenton Hardy entered he did not turn around but, eyeing his visitor in the mirror, casually told him to sit down.\par
"Often heard of you, Mr. Hardy," he saidj, in a surprisingly deep voice that had a comical effect in contrast to his diminutive appearanca "Often heard of you. Glad to meet you. Whaft Mnd of call is this! Social-or professional*95\par
102 The Tower Treasure\par
"Professional."\par
Morley continued rubbing cold cream on hi\'ae jowls.\par
"Spill it," he said briefly. "What's it all about?"\par
"Ever see this wig before?" asked Mr. Hardy, tossing the red wig on the table.\par
Morley turned from the mirror, and an expression of delight crossed his plump countenance,\par
"Well, I'll say I've seen it before!" he declared. "Old Kauffman-the best wig-maker in the country-made that for me about a year and a half ago. That's the kind of wig I wear for \i Launcelot Gobbo \i0 in 'The Merchant of Venice.' Where did you get it? I sure didn't think I'd ever see \i that \i0 wig again."\par
"Why?"\par
"Stolen from me. Some low-down egg cleaned out my dressing room one night. During the performance. Nerviest thing I ever "heard of. Came right in here while I was doing my stuff out front, grabbed my watch and money and a diamond ring I had lying by the mirror, took this wig and a couple of others that were lying around, and beat it. Nobody saw him come or go. Must have got in by that window."\par
Morley talked in short, rapid sentences, and $here was no mistaking his sincerity.\par
Days of Waiting 103\par
**How many wigs did be take?"\par
"About half a dozen. Funny tbing aboufc that, too. They were all red. Took nothin'but red wigs. I told tbe cops to be on tbe lookout for a red-beaded tbief. I didn't worry so much about tbe otber wigs, for tbey were for old plays, but tbis one was being used rigbt alongo Kauffman made it specially for me. I bad to get bim to make another. But say-where did you find it?"\par
'' Oh, just a little case I 'm investigating. The crook left tbis behind him. I was trying to trace it."\par
"Well, you've traced it all right But that's all tbe help I can give you. The cops never \i did \i0 find out who cleaned out my dressing room."\par
Mr. Hardy was disappointed. Tbe clue of the red wig had led only to a blind alley. But he concealed his chagrin and tossed the wig over to Morley.\par
"Gee, and I'm sure glad to get it back again," declared the actor. "Things haven't gone right with me at all since I lost that wig. Losing it brought me a whole flock of bad luck, Sorry I can't help you find the guy that took it, What's he been up to now?"\par
Fenton Hardy evaded the question.\par
"Oh, I'll probably get him some other way* Sive me a list and description of the stuff h\'ab\par
104 The Tower Treasure\par
took from you. Probably I can trace him through that."\par
"Hop to it," said Morley breezily. "Hop right to it, old man. Here's a list of the stuff right here," He reached in a drawer and drew out a sheet of paper which he handed over to the detective. "That's the same list I gave to the cops when I reported the robbery. Number of the watch, and everything."\par
Mr. Hardy folded the list and put it in his pocket. Morley glanced at his watch, lying beside the mirror, face up, and gave an exclamation.\par
"Suffering Sebastopol! Curtain in five minutes and I'm not half made up yet. Excuse me, Mr. Hardy, but I've got to get busy. In this business 'I'll be ready in a minute' doesn't\par
go."\par
He seized a stick of grease paint and feverishly resumed the task of altering his appearance to that of the character he was portraying at the matinee that day. Mr. Hardy, smiling at the actor's casual informality, withdrew from the dressing room and made his way out to the street.\par
"A blind alley I" he muttered. "I was sure I could trace the fellow by means of the wig. Oh, well!" He shrugged his shoulders. "I still have the hat and coat. And if the worst comes to the worst I can try to trace the chap\par
*?ays of Waiting 105\par
through the stuff he stole from Morley-for it was probably the same man, But it looks like a big job."\par
It was a big job.\par
Efforts to trace the purchaser of the hat and coat were fruitless. The search ended at a secondhand store where the owner vainly tried to sell Mr. Hardy a complete outfit of clothing at a bargain, but could not or would not remember who had bought the coat from him. He sold so many coats, and at such bargains, that he could not remember the customers who came into his store. Mr. Hardy was forced to retire, defeated.\par
The predominating quality of the detective's character was patience. When he found that he could not trace the thief through the wig, the hat or the coat, he doggedly set to work trying to trace the man who had broken into the dressing room of the actor, Morley, and this, in spite of the fact that the police had already given up that case as hopeless.\par
Then, in his spare time, Mr. Hardy spent hours at police headquarters, poring over records, searching for particulars of hundreds of red-headed criminals.\par
It was over a week before he found what h\'a9 wanted and it came from a chance note at the bottom of a police description of a thief who \bullet sr-as at that time out on parole^ But whep\par
106 The Tower Treasure\par
Fenton Hardy saw the note he knew he had! stumbled \i ov \i0 the clue he needed. And he smiled! grimly.\par
"It wont be long now,** he remarked, in th\'a9 ^popular ptaiAse of the dayt as he went back te \i 'msteoitokr\i0\par
CHAPTER in poor quaktebs\par
\i itu \i0 the meantime, the Hardy boys were find-ting the suspense almost unbearable. They had! \bullet expected that their father would be away tat a day at the most, but when two days dragged \i 'by, \i0 then three, and finally an entire week, without word from Mr. Hardy further than a brief ;aote from New York stating that he was weSlJ and that the case was not as easy of solutiom as he had hoped, they became depressed.\par
"If dad can't get the thief, no one can,851 declared Joe, with conviction, "and I'm begim-mng to think that even dad is falling down am \bullet this affair."\par
"'Better wait till he admits it himself," suggested Prank. "Although I don't mind telliag you I'm not very hopeful myself."\par
Prank's preoccupied air had not gone unobserved. Callie Shaw had noticed his abstraction. More than once, when she had smiled rdteasantly at him as they met one another In il&e hallways or in the classroom at the higlfe\par
108 The Tower Treasure\par
school, he had merely nodded moodily. Callie was too sensible to be hurt by this, but she wondered what was worrying Frank. So one afternoon, when they happened to leave school together, she taxed him with it.\par
"What's on your mind, Frank?" she asked gaily, ''You've been going around looking like \'ae human thundercloud for the last week."\par
* * Who, me ? 1 didn 't notice," returned Frank Ibeavily,\par
"Yes, you!" she replied, mimicking his lifeless tone. " You used to be full of fun. What'g She matter? Can't I help?" She glanced up $t \ul him\ulnone  eagerly.\par
Frank shook his head.\par
"No, you can't help, Callie. It's about Slim.2*\par
"Slim Robinson? Oh, yes! Wasn't that to\'ae Isad?" said Callie, with quick sympathy "H\'ae Imd to leave school They tell me he's work\par
iii Poor Quarters 10$\par
gate. But until they find who \i did \i0 take the stuft, Mr. Robinson is out of a job and nobody will hire him."\par
"Isn't that too bad? I'm going over to s\'ae& Paula and Tessie and Mrs. Robinson to-nighl Where are they living?"\par
Frank gave Callie the address. Her eye& widened.\par
"Why that's in one of the poorest sections of the city! Frank, I had no idea it was that bad !*'\bullet\par
"It is-and it'll be a lot worse unless Mr Robinson gets work pretty soon0 Slim's earn ings aren't nearly enough to keep the family yet."\par
"Isn't there any chance that Mr. Robinson will be cleared?"\par
"That's what's worrying me. Dad is work ang on the case."\par
"Then why should you worry?" said Callie triumphantly. "'Why, that means it'll be al deared up. Your father can do anything!"\par
"I used to think so, too,. But he seems to/ be stuck, this time."\par
"What's the matter?"\par
"He went to New York almost a week age with some clues that Joe and I were certain) would clear up the affair, and so far we haven't teard from him, only to know that the case was icnarder than he expected."\par
sBut he hasn't given up, has he?'"\par
\'a310 The Tower Treasure\par
\'ab\'abWell-no-"\par
"Then what are you worrying about sffifli If your father had given up the case there would! foe something to worry about. If he is stffi working on it there's always hope."\par
They walked on in silence for a while.\par
"Let's go out to see the Robinsons," OilE\'a9 \i mid \i0 suddenly.\par
"I've been intending to go, but-I sort d? -well-you know-"\par
"You thought it might embarrass them. Well, it won't. I know Paula and Tessie well, and they're not that kind. They'd appreciate a friendly visit."\par
Frank hesitated. He had the natural shyness of his age and he felt awkward about visiting the Robinsons in their new home, for he knew they were now in reduced circumstances and might not wish their former friends to see them in their present plight. But Callie's words reassured him.\par
"All right. I'll go. We can't stay long* though."\par
''"We can't. I must be back in time for sup iper, We'll just drop in on them so they ill know we haven't forgotten all about them,*81\par
5<I thought you were going over to see themi to-night?"\par
**I was, but I've changed my mind I wasuft vora to come with me now,"\par
In Poor Quarters\par
Frank hailed a passing street car bound fot She section of the city in which the Robinsons lived and they got on board., It was a long rid\'a9 and the streets became poorer and meaner a\'a7 they neared the outskirts of Bayport.\par
"It's an outrage, that's what it is I" declared Callie abruptly. "Mrs. Robinson and the girls Srere always accustomed to having everything so nice I And now they have to live away \i out \i0 here! Oh, I hope your father catches the man that committed that robbery!"\par
Her eyes flashed and for a moment she looked so fierce that Frank laughed.\par
"I suppose you'd like to be the judge an<$ jury at his trial, eh?" he chuckled.\par
*'I'd give him a hundred years in jail!'*\par
When at length they came to the street te which the Robinsons had moved they found thaft It was an even poorer thoroughfare than they had expected. There were squalid shacks and tumbledown houses on either side of the narrow street, and ragged children were playing im the roadway. At the far end of the street the'f came to a small, unpainted cottage that some how contrived to look neat in spite of the sup-jroundings. The picket fence had been repaired and the yard had been cleaned up.\par
"This is where they live," said Frank. "It9& neatest place on the whole street."\par
Paula answered their knock. Her\par
112 The Tower Treasure\par
mp with pleasure when she saw who the callers were.\par
"Frank and Callie I" exclaimed the girL 13(5 You've come to see us I Come in We're dy iag of loneliness. There hasn't been a soul out fhis way since we moved"\par
Callie flashed Frank a look of triumph, and whispered:\par
41 There, now! Didn't I tell you they'd be glad?" as they went into the house.\par
They were greeted with kindly dignity by Mrs. Robinson and with girlish good humor toy Tessie. Mrs. Eobinson received them with the same self-possession she would have shown had they been back at Tower Mansion, and Frank wondered at himself for thinking that these good people might be ashamed to meet their old friends in this new and humbler feome.\par
"We can't stay long," explained Callie, "But Frank and I just thought we'd run out \i m \i0 see how you all are."\par
"We're all well-that's one mercy to be thankful for," answered Mrs. Robinson, <\'abperry jg working, I suppose you knew that.**\par
"And Mr. Robinson?" inquired Frank.\par
She shook her head.\par
"Not yet." Mrs. Robinson's lips quiveredo\par
\'abJt's so hard for him," she said. "Without\par
<s recommendation^ you know It looks a#\par
In Poor Quarters 115\par
though he might have to go to another city to get work."\par
"And leave you here?"\par
"I suppose so. We don't know what tc do."\par
" It's so unjust!'' flared Paula. \'ab' Papa didn 't have a thing to do with that miserable robbery, and yet he has to suffer for it just the same!"'\par
"Has your father-discovered anything-yet, Frank?" asked Mrs. Robinson hesitantly,,\par
" \i I \i0 'm sorry,'' admitted Frank. '' We haven't heard from him. He's been away in New York following up some clues. But so far there's been nothing. Of course, it isn't often he falls down on a case."\par
"We hardly dare hope that he'll be able to clear Mr. Robinson. The whole case is so mysterious."\par
"I've given up thinking of it," Tessie de> clared. "If it is cleared up, all well and good. If it isn't-we won't starve, at any rate, and papa knows we all believe in him."\par
"Yes, I suppose it doesn't do much good to keep talking about it," agreed Mrs. Robinson. "We've gone over it all so thoroughly that there is nothing more to say."\par
So, by tacit consent, the subject was changed, and for the rest of their stay Frank and Callie \'a9hatted of doings at school. Mrs. Robinson and the girls invited them to remain for suppers\par
114 The Tower Treasure\par
but Callie insisted that she must go. When they lleft they promised faithfully to pay another visit in the near future. Only once again was the subject that was nearest their hearts brought up, and that was when Mrs. EobinsoB drew Frank to one side as he was leaving.\par
"Promise me one thing," she said. "Let me know as soon as your father returns-if he has any news."\par
"I'll do that, Mrs. Eobinson," agreed the boy. "I know what this suspense must be like for you."\par
"It's terrible. But as long as Fenton Hardy is working on the ease I'm sure that it will be cleared up if it is humanly possible."\par
And with that, the matter rested. Callie was unusually silent all the way home. It was evident that she had been profoundly affected by the change that the Tower Mansion mystery had caused in the lives of the Eobinsons. Kat-urally sympathetic and tender-hearted, she felt keenly the injustice of it all, and she realized even more than Frank what it had meant to Mrs. Eobinson and the girls to move from their comfortable home in the Mansion to the squalid and distant part of the city in which they now lived.\par
Callie lived but a few blocks away from the Hardy home, and Frank accompanied her to the\par
In Poor Quarters 115\par
*'Mercy!" she exclaimed, glancing at her watch, "it's after six. I'm away late for supper."\par
"So am I. See you to-morrow."\par
"Surely. But, Frank-"\par
"Yes?"\par
Callie hesitated, then looked directly into his \'a9yes. "Frank," she said, "if your father, somehow, doesn't clear up this affair, you and Joe simply \i must \i0 do it! You \i must! \i0 For the Robinsons. It means so much to them."\par
"Dad won't fall down on it. Don't worry., And Joe and I are giving all the help we can.'9\par
His confidence was contagious. Callie brightened up immediately.\par
"In that case," she said, gaily, "the mystery is as good as solved. The three best detectives in the world are working on it. Good-byej, Frank"\par
With that she ran lightly into the house.\par
CHAPTER XIV bed jackley\par
it was another week before Fenton Hardy returned to Bayport.\par
Contrary to the expectations of the boys, he did not arrive from New York. Instead, he sisame home early one morning, having reached the city by a train from the west. He had sent ino advance notice of his arrival, and the first his sons knew of it was when a servant told them that their father had reached the house in fhe early hours of the morning, plainly careworn and travel-stained. He had gone immediately to bed, leaving orders that he was on no account to be disturbed.\par
This was at breakfast, and although the boys were wild with impatience to learn the outcome of their father's trip, they were obliged to curb their curiosity. Mr. Hardy was still sleeping when they left for school that morning and, to their surprise, he was asleep when they came back home for lunch.\par
"He must be mighty tired!" remarked Jo& \bullet *I wonder where on earth he came from?"\par
116\par
reed Jackley 11T\par
"Probably been up all night. When dad gets iiard at work on a case he forgets all about sleep. I'll bet he found something."\par
"Hope so. But I wish he'd wake up and tell us. I hate to go back to school without knowing."\par
But Mr. Hardy had not awakened by thg time the boys set out for school again, although they lingered until they were in danger of being late.\par
All afternoon they were tormented by curiosity. Where had their father been? What had he discovered? As soon as school was out they fled down the steps, broke away from a group of boys anxious to get up a baseball game, and shattered all records in their race for home.\par
Fenton Hardy was in the library, and as they rushed panting into the room he grinned broadly at his sons, for he was quite well aware that they were impatient to hear an account of his trip.\par
He looked refreshed after his long sleep and it was evident that his trip had not been entirely without success, for his manner was cheerful. The Hardy boys knew their father well, and they knew that when a case was difficult of solution the great detective became moody and worried.\par
"What luck, dad?" asked Frank, perching <a>a the arm of an easy chair.\par
118 TWie Tower ireasure\par
Mr. Hardy raised his eyebrows, pretending snot to understand.\par
"About what?" he inquired.\par
"About the case. The Tower Mansion casec The red wig. Did you find out who owned it? Did you catch the thief?"\par
"Whoa! Whoa! Not all at once. A question at a time please. Now, do I understand that you want to know if I found out anything about the Tower Mansion affair?"\par
"Don't keep us waiting, dad," pleaded Joe. "You know that's what we're asking you about."\par
"Well," answered Mr. Hardy, "yes-and no!"\par
"That's not much of an answer," objected! Frank, in disappointment.\par
"It's the best answer I can give, unfortunately. I \i did \i0 find out something about the red wig. But as for connecting its wearer with the Tower robbery-that is still to come."\par
"You traced the fellow who wore the wig?"'\par
"I did. And he turned out to be a well-known criminal-well known to the police, that Is."\par
"What's his name?" asked Joe.\par
"'Jackley. John Jackley-commonly known as 'Bed'."\par
"Because he has red hair?"\par
Because he \i hasn't \i0 red hair. That re-\par
Bed Jackley 119\par
verses the usual order of nicknames, I imagine. This fellow Jackley has a fondness for wearing red wigs."\par
"And was he the man who stole Chet's roadster?"\par
"It seems almost certain. I traced the wig\'a3 which had been originally stolen from an actoff in New York. I traced it to Jackley because his habit of wearing red wigs is well known to the police, and by locating him and keeping a dose watch on him and paying a call at his room one night when he was out, I managed to find some of the loot that he had taken when he robbed the actor. That seemed to connect \'aeverything up very welL"\par
"Where did you find him?" asked Frank,\par
"In New York. He wasn't in hiding, for he hadn't been sought for any particular crime at the time. The police seemed to overlook him in their investigation of the dressing-room theft,9\'a3>\par
"Did you accuse him?"\par
"No. I wanted to learn more. When I found the articles that had been stolen from the actor and knew that the wig found by the roadster had been taken at the same times, 2 knew Bed Jackley was the auto thief. But I wanted to get some information on the Towel-Mansion affair if possible. So I took a room in the house in which Jackley was living, kept a close watch on Mm."\par
E20 The Tower Treasure\par
"Did you learn anything?"\par
Mr. Hardy shook his head.\par
'' Jackley himself spoiled everything,, He got mixed up in a jewel robbery and cleared out <of the city* Luckily, I heard him packing up, and I trailed him. The police were watching for \ul him\ulnone  and he couldn't get out by railway- that is, not in the ordinary manner. Instead, lie tried to make his escape by jumping a freight."\par
"And you still followed?"\par
"I lost him two or three times, but luck was with me, and somehow I managed to pick up Ms trail again. He got out of the city, out into New Jersey, and then his luck failed him. A railway detective recognized him and then the \'a9hase was on. Up to that time I had been content with just keeping behind \ul\i Mm,\ulnone  i \i0 had hoped to pose as a fellow fugitive and win his con-Mence. But when the chase started in real Earnest I had to join with the other officers."\par
"And they caught Jackley?"\par
"Not without a chase. Jackley, by the way, was once a railroad man. Strangely enough,, \i 'he \i0 once worked not many miles from here. He jmanaged to steal a railway gasoline speeder and got away from us. But he didn't last long, for the speeder jumped the tracks on a (BSirve and Jackley was badly smashed up."\par
"Was he killed?"\par
Tried Jackley I2J\par
*1 don't think he'll live. He's in a hospital right now and the doctors say he hasn't much of a chance."\par
"But he's under arrest."\par
"Oh, yes. He is being held for the jewel robbery and also for the robbery from the actor's dressing room. But \i I \i0 don't think he'll live to answer either charge."\par
"Didn't you find out anything that wouldl connect him with the Tower robbery!"\par
"Not a thing."\par
The Hardy boys were disappointed, and their expressions showed it. If Bed Jackley died, the secret of the Tower robbery would die with him, for by now Frank and Joe were convinced that the notorious criminal had indeed been the thief for whose misdeeds Mr. Robinson was now suffering. And if the secret died with him, Mr. Eobinson would be doomed to spend the rest of his life under a cloud, suspected o^ being a thief.\par
"Have you seen Jackley yet?" asked Frank.\par
"After the smash-up. But I didn't have a tohance to talk to him."\par
"You might have been able to get a confession from him."\par
Fenton Hardy nodded.\par
"I may be able to get one yet. If he is sunj he is going to die he may admit everything. ! mtend to make an effort to see him in the hos-\par
The Tower Treasure\par
pital and ask him about the Tower rol anyway."\par
"Is he far away?"\par
Mr. Hardy named a small city not far distant! fFiom Bayport.\par
S'I explained my mission to the doctor \i m \i0 dharge and he promised to telephone me as fcoon as it was possible for Jackley to see any oae\'bb I'm convinced that the fellow had something to do with the Tower affair. It's a cer\'ab tainty that he stole the automobile-the wig proves that. By the same token it's certain that he was the man who tried to hold up the ticket office. Having failed in that attempt, it eeems more than likely that an old-time criminal like Jackley would look around for something else to do before he left Bayport."\par
"You say he used to work near here!" asked Joe.\par
"He was once employed by the railroad, and he knows all the country around here welL Then he got mixed up in some thefts from freight cars and after he got out of jail he be-eame a professional criminal. It was when \i i \i0 was looking over the records that I found out about his fondness for wearing a red wigt That was what eventually proved his undoingo If lie had not robbed the actor's dressing room jto get the wig that he used when he was in Bayport, I would never have traced him."\par
Bed Jackley 123\par
\i At \i0 that moment it was announced that Chief jCollig of the Bayport police force wished to see Fenton Hardy. The detective winked at the Jboys, and told the servant to show the chief in.\par
Chief Collig entered the room, mopping his brow with a handkerchief, for it was a hot day and he was a stont man. Behind him came Detective Smuff, fanning himself with a straw hat.\par
"Good afternoon, gentlemen," said Mr, Hardy genially. "Won't you sit down?"\par
Chief Collig eased himself into an arm chair. Detective Smuff leaned against the table. Both glanced inquiringly at the two boys.\par
"Unless your business is \i very \i0 private, I'd just as soon have the boys stay," suggested Mr. Hardy pleasantly. He did not trust Chief Collig and Detective Smuff, who came to \ul him \ulnone only in emergencies and who usually took all the credit for themselves whenever he helped ithem out of their difficulties. He preferred to fcave the boys present as witnesses.\par
"How about it, chief ?" asked Smuff heavily., "Can they stay?"\par
"I guess so," granted Chief Collig, undoing $he collar of his uniform. "Can't do no good and they can't do no harm."\par
"Well, gentlemen* to what do I owe the honor \'a7)f this visit?" asked Mr. Hardy.\par
"We've been hearin* things about this Towe?\par
124 The Tower Treasure\par
Mansion case," observed Chief Collig gravely^ "You've been workin' on it, eh!"\par
"Perhaps."\par
41 You've been out of town for quite a few days. You \i must \i0 have been workin' on it."\par
"That's what we dedooce, anyway," put in Detective Smuff.\par
"Perhaps it's my own business."\par
*'Police business is everybody's business," declared Collig judicially. "What we want to know is-did you find any clues?"\par
Detective Smuff fished out the inevitable notebook and pencil.\par
"I'll note 'em down, chief," he remarked.\par
"You may as well put back the notebook, Smuff," snapped Fenton Hardy, with annoyance. "If I went away, it is my own business, and if I am still working on the Tower robbery, that's my business too. I'll thank you to keep to your own affairs."\par
Chief Collig opened his mouth, then closed it again. He took out his handkerchief and mopped his brow, all the while staring at Fenton Hardy. Then he turned and gazed at Smuff,\par
"Detective Smuff," he said, in a solemn Toice, "did you hear that!"\par
\'ab1 did."\par
c\'80What do you think of it, Detective Smuff ?*>\par
-I think-I think-" Detective Smuff groped\par
Red Jackley 12S\par
lor an expression that would encompass the magnitude of the offence. "I think Mr. Hardy is guilty of obstructin' the cause of justice/* he said grandly.\par
"Obstructing fiddlesticks!" said Mr. Hardyc *' I 'm minding my own business. Which is more than some police officers seem capable of doing."\par
Chief Collig sighed.\par
"The trouble with you, Mr. Hardy," he said, "is that you won't co-operate. If you co-oper ated a little more, we would all be farther ahead. There ain't any co-operation at alL Here is me and Smuff, doin' our best to drive crime out of Bayport, and you won't co-operate."\par
"Perhaps the fact that there is a thousand dollars reward in the case isn't making you anxious for some co-operation!" suggested Fenton Hardy dryly.\par
"It ain't got nothin* to do with it," replied Chief Collig virtuously. "We're just anxious to see this affair cleared up, that's all. Now, Mr. Hardy, we hear you were with the officers that chased this here notorious criminal Bed Jackley."\par
Mr. Hardy gave a perceptible start. He had no idea that news of the capture of Jackley had reached Bayport, much less that news of his own participation in the chase had reached the city-\par
5126 The Tower Treasure\par
"What of it?"\par
"Did Jackley have anything to do with fere Tower case?"\par
\i 6\i0 'How should I know?"\par
"Wasn't that what you were working on?s>f\par
6\'abThat's my affair."\par
Detective Smuff and Chief Collig looked ai tune another.\par
"You ain't co-operatin'," complained Chief Collig. "You're goin' to put us to a whole Sot of worry and expense just because yoia Won't give us a little co-operation."\par
"Just what do you mean?"\par
*'Detective Smuff and me was thinkin* of goin' over to the hospital where this man Jack fey is and givin' him the third degree about th\'a9 Tower case."\par
Fenton Hardy's lips narrowed into a straight Mne.\par
*' You can't do that. The doctor won't let yora. see him."\par
"We're going to try, anyway. There's at ftrain at seven o'clock, and we aim to have a ftalk with this fellow Jackley to-night."\par
Mr. Hardy shrugged his shoulders.\par
"Go ahead. It means nothing to me. But if ;fou take my advice you'll stay away. Youll just spoil everything. Jackley will talk wheB She time comes."\par
8'Oh, ho!" said Detective Smuff trium*\par
Red Jackley 121\par
phanfly. "Then there \i is \i0 something to it., hey f ^\par
"I knew there was," said Chief Collig, 8*Come on, Smuff. We '11 make this man Jackley talk yet. We're officers of the law, we are, and I'd like to see any doctor keep us from doin& our duty."\par
He mopped his brow again, put on his hat^ aodded to Fenton Hardy, and clumped out of the room. Detective Smuff, putting his notebook into his pocket, followed. The door closed behind them.\par
Mr. Hardy sat back with a gesture of despair,,\par
"They'll spoil everything," he said. *' They 're just so clumsy that Red Jackley will close up like a clam if they try to make him talk."\par
"Perhaps," remarked Frank signincantlysl "they'll miss their train."\par
At that moment the telephone rang., Mr Hardy answered it.\par
"Hello-yes, this is Fenton Hardy-yes-|oh, yes, doctor-he is-well, well-is that so ?-= won't live until morning-I can see him?-fine t-thank you-good-bye."\par
He put back the receiver.\par
"There," he said wearily, "just my luck? Bed Jackley is dying, and the doctor says I \'aean see him to-night. But Collig and Smuff fwill have first right to talk to him, for they are sfficials and I'm only a private detective If\par
128 The Tower Treasure\par
JacMey confesses, they'll have the credit fog\par
it."\par
"They'll just have to miss their train," said! Frank. "Come on, Joe. Let's see what we aan do<"\par
CHAPTER XV\par
the chief gets a bomb\par
"what's up now?" asked Joe, when the Hardy boys had left the house.\par
"Chief Collig and Detective Snmff must miss that train."\par
"But how?"\par
"I don't know just yet, but they've got to miss it. If they reach the hospital to-night they'll interview Jackley first. One of two things will happen. They'll either get a confession and take all the credit for clearing up the case, or they'll go about it so clumsily that Jackley will say nothing and spoil everything for dad."\par
The Hardy boys walked along the street in silence. They realized that the situation was urgent, but although they racked their brains trying to think of some way in which to prevent Chief Collig and Detective Smuff from catching the train, it seemed hopeless.\par
"Let's round up the gang," suggested Joa "Perhaps they can think of something."\par
129\par
130 The Tower Treasure\par
"'The gang" consisted of the boys who been with Frank and Joe the day they held the picnic in the woods. There was, of course, Chet Morton. Besides him were Allen Hooper, otherwise known as "Biff", because of his passion for boxing, Jerry Gilroy, Phil Cohen and Tony Prito, all students at the Bayport high school. They were usually to be found on the school campus after hours, playing ball, and there the Hardy boys soon located them. The game was just breaking up.\par
"Pikers," grinned Chet Morton when he saw the Hardy boys approaching. "You wouldn't play ball when we asked you to, and now you come around when the game's all\par
over."\par
"We had something more important on our minds," replied Frank. "We need your help."\par
"What's the mattah?" asked Tony Prito. Tony was the son of a prosperous Italian building contractor, but he had not yet been in America long enough to talk the language without an accent, and his attempts were frequently the cause of much amusement to his companions. He was quick and good-natured, however, and laughed as much at his own errors as any one else did.\par
"Chief Collig and Detective Smuff are buttling into one of dad's cases, "said Frank. ' * We san't tell you much more about it than that\par
The Chief Gets a BomTJ 131\par
But the whole thing is that they mustn't catch the seven o'clock train."\par
"What do you want us to do?" asked Biff Hooper. " Blow up the bridge ?''\par
"We might lock Collig and Smuff in one of their own cells," suggested Phil Cohen.\par
"And get locked in ourselves," added Jerry Gilroy. "Be sensible. Are you serious about this, Frank?"\par
"Absolutely. If those two catch that train dad's case will be ruined. And I don't mind telling you it has something to do with Perry Kobinson."\par
Chet Morton whistled.\par
"Ah, ha! I see now. The Tower affair. In that case, we'll see to it that the seven o'clock train leaves here without our worthy chief and Ms equally worthy-although dumb-detective." He hated Smuff, for the sleuth had once or twice tried to arrest the boys for bathing in a forbidden section of the bay.\par
"There is only one question left," said Phil solemnly.\par
"And what is that?"\par
"How to keep them from getting on the train."\par
"Get your brains to work, fellows-if yota have any," ordered Jerry Gilroy. "Let's figure out a plan."\par
A dozen plans were suggested, each wilder\par
132 The Tower Treasure\par
than the one before. Biff Hooper was in favor of kidnapping the chief and his detective, binding them hand and foot and setting them adrift in the bay in an open boat.\par
Phil Cohen suggested putting the chief's watch an hour ahead. That plan, as Frank observed, would have been a good one but for the little difficulty of laying hands on the watch.\par
Chet Morton thought it would be a good idea to start a fight in front of the police station \i just \i0 as Collig and Smuff were about to leave for the train. The possibility that they might all land in jail as a result made this suggestion unpopular.\par
"If we were in Italy we could get the Black Hand to help," said Tony Prito.\par
"The Black Hand!" declared Chet. "That's a good idea!"\par
"We got no Black Hand society in Bayport," objected Tony.\par
"Let's get one up. Send the chief a Black Hand letter warning him not to take that train."\par
"And if he ever found who wrote it, we'd all be np to our necks in trouble," pointed out Joe. "I'd like to put a bomb under his old police station."\par
"Fine idea!" applauded Tony. "Where we get the bomb?"\par
"Leave it to me," announced Chet Morton.\par
The Chief Gets a Bomb 133\par
mysteriously. "I'll get a bomb. I'll guarantee to keep the chief in town."\par
"Not a real bomb?" asked Frank.\par
"Why not?" said Chet. "Listen to me.'*'\par
Chet proceeded to lay forth his plan in a stealthy whisper. It was received with chuckles and murmurs of admiration. His companions clapped him on the back, and when he had finished the boys hastened down the street toward the Hardy home.\par
In the rear of the house were a garage and an old barn. In the barn was a gymnasium that the Hardy boys had fitted out for themselves, and here was the usual collection of old toys, footballs, broken baseball bats and such paraphernalia, to be found wherever boys store their cherished possessions. Frank groped about among the rubbish in one corner until at last he rose with an exclamation of triumph, holding aloft a shining object.\par
"It's here!" he said. "Let's get busy. There's no time to lose."\par
An old box was quickly produced, and in it the shining object was placed. The box was then carefully wrapped up, and in a few minutes the boys left the barn, Tony carrying the package under one arm.\par
Not far from the Bayport police station was a fruit stand over which presided an Italian by the name of Bocco. He was a simple, genial\par
334 The Tower -Treasure\par
soul, who believed almost everything he hearSj and, like most of his countrymen, he was of am excitable nature. Toward Eocco's fruit stand the boys made their way. Eocco was sorting over his oranges when they approached^ Tony, with the box under his arm, hung in the background, while Chet stepped boldly forward.\par
"How much are your oranges, Eocco?" he asked.\par
Eocco, with much explanatory waving of arms, recited the prices of the various grades of oranges.\par
''Too much. There's a fellow at another fruit stand on the next street sells them a nickel a dozen cheaper "\par
" He no can do!" shrieked Eocco. '' My price is da low." Then, angered by this reflection on the prices of his wares, he burst into a lengthy explanation of the struggles confronting a poor Italian trying to get along in a new country. He grabbed Chet by the coat collar, dragged him to a corner of the fruit stall, bade him inspect the fruit, gabbled off prices, and generally worked himself into a state of high indignation. In the meantime, Tony Prito made good use of his time to shove the mysterious package under the front of the stall. Then he joined the other boys who had screened his movements by gath-\'a9ring about Eocco.\par
"You'll have the Black Hand after you if \i yom,\i0\par
\i The \i0 Chief <Ms a Bomb\par
on charging such high prices-that's al 1 can say!" declared Chet, as the boys moved; away.\par
"Poof! Wat do I care for da Blacka Hand, No frighten me!" said Rocco bravely, but he gulped when he said it and there was no doubt that the shot had gone home.\par
It was now after six o'clock, and the boys de= tided that in the interests of their plan they would have to brook the parental wrath by being late for supper. Frank had assumed that Chief Coilig and Detective Smuff would be leaving to catch the train at about ten minutes to seven, so shortly after six-thirty, Phil Cohei^ who had remained in the background during the interview with Bocco, walked smartly up to the fruit stand again. The others were viewing the scene from around the corner of a near-by building.\par
"Banana," said Phil briefly, tossing a nickel on the counter. When he had received the fruit he began to eat it, at the same time chatting with Eocco.\par
"Wat you t'ink?" snickered the Italian, "'some boys come here a while ago and say da' Blacka Hand t'ink I charga too much for da fruit."\par
"Well, you \i do \i0 charge too much, Rocccb Everybody says so."\par
C<I sella da good fruit at da good price.\i 9C-\i0\par
136 The Tower Treasure\par
Phil turned aside and at the same time accidentally knocked an apple to the ground. He bent to pick it up, Eocco eyeing him narrowly In case he tried to slip it into his pocket. But Phil did not get up at once. Instead, he said:\par
"Oi! What's this?"\par
"Wat you find?"\par
"What's this, Eocco?" Phil rose from in front of the stand, with the package in his hands. "I found this under the counter."\par
Eocco stared. His mouth opened in dismay. For, sounding clearly from the inside of the package, came a steady "tick-tock, tick-tack."\par
1' A homb!" he shrieked. \'ab' Put heem down!''\par
Thereupon he scrambled wildly over the array of fruit at the back of the stand, knocked over a tray of oranges, and went sprawling over the opposite counter, roaring, "Police!" at the top of his lungs.\par
Phil, with a fine imitation of fright, put the package on top of the counter and fled.\par
Eocco, in his white apron, was dancing about in the middle of the street, yelling, "Bombs! Police! Da Blacka Hand!" Then, suddenly fearing that the supposed bomb might explode at any moment, he whirled rapidly about and raced down the street away from the stand, in the general direction of the police station.\par
He reached the doorway just as Chief Collig\par
The Chief Gets a Bomb 131\par
and Detective Smuff were leaving for the train Panting with fear and excitement, Bocco implored them to save him from the Black Handera who had put a homh under his fruit stand.\par
"Da homb, she go 'teek-tock' ", he wailed. "She hlowa da stand into da little piece 1"\par
"A homb I" exclaimed Chief Collig. "Surely not in Bayport!"\par
"I always thought there was Black Handera around here," said Smuff.\par
"She blowa up da fruit stand! Come queeck!"\par
Chief Collig and Detective Smuff followed Eocco to the corner. Then they peeped around until they could see the deserted fruit stand, with the package on the counter.\par
"You say it goes 'tick-took'?"\par
"Just lika da clock."\par
"Must be a bomb, all right," said Smuff. "They run by clockwork."\par
"Might go off any minute," observed the chief. "I hate to go near it. Smuff, you go and pour a pail of water over it."\par
"Me?"\par
"Yes, you. You 're not afraid, are you ?' \i *\i0\par
"No-I'm not afraid," muttered Smuff, mopping his brow. "But I got to think of my wife and family."\par
"Coward!" said the chief. "I'd do it my*\par
138 The Tower Treasure\par
self, only it wouldn't be right, seein* I*m youf superior officer. Bad for discipline.'*\par
The worthy officers stared at the package ob the fruit stand counter, while Eocco danced with impatience. Neither Collig nor Smuff dared approach closer, but they realized some\'b0 thing must be done.\par
"Where's Eiley?" asked the chief at last\par
\bullet\bullet Out on his beat, around the corner."\par
"Get him."\par
Smuff departed hastily, glad of the chance to get away from the vicinity of the bomb. He was some time in locating Con Eiley, and when at last that minion of the law was escorted back to the chief, seven o'clock had come and gone. So had the train.\par
CHAPTER XVI A confession\par
ci(5RiLEY!" ordered the chief, "see thaft package on the counter of" the fruit stand. Go and get it and pour a pail of water over it.9*\par
"Huh?" exclaimed Riley, gaping.\par
"Pour a pail of water over it."\par
Riley took off his helmet and scratched his head. He began to wonder if his chief's braim had been affected by the heat.\par
"Don't stand there staring at me I" snapped Collig. "Hurry up and obey orders."\par
"This is the meanest job I ever got," observed Con Riley. But he ambled across the street, wondering why a crowd of people had collected-for word had quickly spread that a bomb had been found under Rocco's fruit stand '-and when he reached the package he inspected it wonderingly.\par
"Mebbe she blowa him all to da bits!" suggested Rocco fearfully.\par
"He has insurance," consoled the chief.\par
4We'11 give him a good funeral," observed\par
139\par
140 The Tower Treasure\par
Con Riley hunted around the fruit stand until he found a pail, and then he went up the street until he located a tap. Finally, with the pail full of water, he went back to the fruit stand, dumped the water over the package, and stood awaiting further orders.\par
"Soak it again!" roared the chief, who was taking no chances.\par
Con Riley sighed, but did as he was told. For five minutes he was kept busy dumping innumerable pails of water over the package, and only then did Chief Collig and Detective Smuff venture forth. Then, with fear and trembling, Chief Collig handed the package to Smuff and bade him open it.\par
Smuff's hands were shaking so that he could scarcely tear apart the coverings from the water-soaked parcel. The chief withdrew to a safe distance. Con Riley, who had just been told by a friend that he had been pouring water over a live bomb, was trying to achieve a sickly smile as the crowd congratulated him on his bravery.\par
Detective Smuff opened the package. The coverings fell away. The cardboard box, dripping with water, tumbled apart.\par
A bright object fell to the pavement with a dtatter.\par
Everybody jumped.\par
But there was no cause for fear. The bright\par
A Confessiom\par
object was nothing more harmful than an old alarm clock.\par
The Hardy boys and their chums, mingling with the crowd, roared with laughter, and when the crowd saw how Chief Collig and his assistants had been duped they joined in the merri ment.\par
'' An alarm clock!'' roared some one. '' They thought an alarm clock was a bomb. Pouring water over an alarm clock!"\par
Chief Collig and Smuff returned to the police station with all the dignity they could muster under the circumstances. The crowd howled and whooped with laughter.\par
The Hardy boys went home smiling. The seven o'clock train had left half an hour before,, Their father was making the trip to the city without the interferance of the chief and his assistant, Smuff.\par
Fenton Hardy returned home late that night, and at the breakfast table next morning he was in high spirits.\par
"Solved another mystery!" asked Mm Hardy gaily, as she poured the coffee. She seldom asked questions about her husband's work, being of a gentle nature that instinctively shrank from any discussion of crime. It frequently distressed her that Mr. Hardy's occupation should be one that meant terms of im= prisonment for those whom his cunning and\par
142 The Tower Treasure\par
\'a9leverness had brought to justice. But husband's attitude this morning was so unmi9= takably jubilant that she was glad for his saka if he had scored another success.\par
"Practically solved, my dear. If you'd cars! to hear all about it-"\par
"Not me. You know I don't care to hear about these terrible things."\par
"Well, the boys shall hear of it then. They are interested. If they'll come into my den after breakfast I'll tell them all about it."\par
"That means you succeeded," Frank said.\par
"Eat your bacon and eggs and don't be impatient."\par
After breakfast the boys went with theiir father into the den off the library, eagerly awaiting news of his mission of the previous evening. They had not told him how Chief Col-Jig and Detective Smuff had missed the train, but they were shrewdly certain that their efforts in this respect had been of considerable assist-ance to Mr. Hardy.\par
"First of all," said the detective, "Jackley \'a7s dead."\par
"Did he confess?"\par
"You're not very sympathetic for the pooff fellow. Yes, he confessed. Fortunately, Chioif Collig and Detective Smuff didn't show up-^\par
Fenton Hardy saw that Joe and Frank glanced at one another, and he smiled quietly.\par
A Confession 143\par
e*I have an idea that you two scamps know snore about that than you would care to tell However, they failed to show up, and I had a clear field ahead of me. I saw Jackley just before he died. And I questioned him about th\'a9 Tower robbery."\par
4'He admitted it?"\par
*'He admitted everything. He said he came to Bayport with the intention of robbing the ticket office. When he failed in that attempt he decided to hang around for a few days, and them he hit upon Tower Mansion as his next effort, He entered the place and opened the safe, Then he took the jewels and the bonds."\par
"What did he do with the loot?"\par
"That's what I'm coming to. I had quite a time making Jackley confess to the Tower affair and it was not until he was on the point of death that he admitted it. Then he said, *Yes, I took the stuff-but I couldn't get away with it. You can get it back easily. I hid it m the old tower-'\par
"That was all he said. He became uncom ecious then and died in a few minutes. Jusfe why he couldn't get away with the loot andl why he hid it in the tower, I don't know. H\'a9 didn't have time to tell me. But he said it waa hidden in the old tower."\par
"Why, we'll find it in no time!" exclaimed Prank, "Tower Mansion has two towers-th\'ae\par
144 The Tower Treasure\par
the old and the new. We'll search the old tower."\par
"The story seems likely enough," said Mr\'bb Hardy. " Jackley would gain nothing by lying about it when he was on his deathbed. He probably became frightened after he committed the robbery and hid in the old tower until he saw the coast was clear and he was able to get away. Then no doubt he decided to hide the stuff there and take a chance on coming baci for it some time after the affair had blown over."\par
"That was why he couldn't be traced through the jewels and the bonds," Joe said. "They were never disposed of at all. They've been lying in the old tower all this time."\par
"I tried to get him to tell me in just what part of the tower the loot was hidden," continued Fenton Hardy, "but he died before he could say any more. 'I hid it in the old tower*. He just managed to gasp that out before he be\'b0 came unconscious."\par
"It shouldn't be hard to find the stuff, now that we have a general idea of where it is," Frank pointed out. "Probably he didn't hide it very carefully. The old tower has been unoccupied for a long time and it is rarely entered. The stuff would be as safe there as if lie had hidden it miles away."\par
Joe got up from his chair.\par
A Confession 145\par
"I think we ought to get busy and go search the old tower right away. Oh, boy 1 If we can only hand old Applegate his jewels and bonds this morning and clear Mr. Robinson. Let's start."\par
"I'll leave it to you boys to make the search,n said Mr. Hardy, with a smile. "I've no doubt the stuff will be easily recovered, and you can have the satisfaction of turning it over to Mr. Applegate. I guess you can get along without me in this case from now on."\par
"We wouldn't have got very far if it hadn't been for you."\par
"And I wouldn't have got very far if it hadn't been for you, so we're even," smiled Mr. Hardy. "Be on your way, then, and good luck to you."\par
"We'll find it, never fear," promised Frank, putting on his cap. "I hope the AppJegates don't throw us out when we ask to be allowed to look around in the old tower."\par
"Just tell them you have a pretty good clue to where the bonds and jewels are hidden and they'll let you search to your heart's content," Mr. Hardy advised.\par
"Come on then, Joe. We'll have that thousand dollar reward before the morning is over."\par
Their father glanced at them shrewdly.\par
"Don't count your chickens before they are\par
14ft The Tower Treasure\par
hatched," he said. And then, as the boy\'a7 hastened out of the den, he called after thems "Also, you might remember the old proverb that there is many a slip between the cup and the lip."\par
But the Hardy boys scarcely heard him, so eager were they to begin searching the old tower and so confident were they that the mystery was about to be cleared up.\par
CHAPTER XVII\par
the seaeoh op the tower\par
when the Hardy boys reached Tower Mar Bion that morning the door was answered by Hard Applegate himself. The tall, stooped gentleman peered at them through his thick lensed glasses. In one hand he held a sheet of stamps, for it was his custom to devote the mornings to his collection.\par
"Yes?" he said testily, for he was annoyed at being disturbed. "What do you boys want liere at this hour of day!"\par
"You remember us, don't you?" asked Frank politely. "We're Mr. Hardy's sons."\par
'Fenton Hardy, the detective? Are you his\par
'Yes, sir."\par
"Well, what do you want?"\par
*'We'd like to take a look through the old slower, if you don't mind. We've got a new clue about the robbery you had here a while ago."\par
"Want to look through the old tower? Of all the impudence I What do you want to look\par
147\par
148 The Tower Treasure\par
through the tower for? And what has that got to do with the robbery?"\par
"We have evidence that leads us to believe the jewels and bonds were hidden in the tower by the thief."\par
"Oh! You have evidence, have you?" The old man peered at them very closely. It's that rascal Eobinson, I'll warrant. He hid the stuff there, and now he's put you up to going and finding it, just to clear himself."\par
The Hardy boys had not considered the affair in this light, and they gazed at Mr. Applegate in consternation. At last Joe found his tongue.\par
"Mr. Robinson isn't mixed up in this at all," he said. "The real thief was found. He said the stuff was hidden in the old tower. If you will just let us take a look around, we'll find it for you."\par
"Who was the real thief, then?"\par
"We can't tell you just now, sir. Wait till we find the stolen goods and we'll tell you the whole story."\par
Mr. Applegate took off his glasses and wiped them with his handkerchief. He glared at the boys suspiciously for a few moments. Then he called out:\par
"Adelia!"\par
A high cracked voice from the dim regions of the hallway answered.\par
"What d'you want?'s\par
The Searcn of the Tower 149\par
"Come here a minute."\par
There was a rustle of skirts, and then Adelia Applegate, maiden sister of the owner of Tower Mansion, appeared. She was a faded blonde woman, of thin features, and she was dressed in a gown of a fashion fifteen years hack, in which every color of the spectrum fought for supremacy.\par
"What's the matter now!" she demanded. "'Can't a body sit down to do a bit of sewinf without you hollerin' at them?"\par
"These boys want to look through the old tower."\par
"What for? Up to some mischief, I'll be bound."\par
"They think they can find the bonds and jewels."\par
"Oh, they do, do they?" sniffed the woman. "And what would the bonds and jewels be doin* in the old tower?"\par
"We have evidence that they were hidden there after the robbery," replied Frank.\par
Miss Applegate sniffed again and viewed the boys with frank suspicion.\par
"As if any thief would be fool enough to hide them right in the house he robbed!"\par
"These are Mr. Hardy's boys," explained Hurd Applegate. "He is the big detective, yon know."\par
!1A11 detectives," said Miss Applegate, "are\par
150 The Tower Treasure\par
laosey. Always pryin' into other people's affairs."\par
"We're just trying to help you," put in Jo\'a9 politely.\par
"Go ahead, then. Go ahead," said Miss Applegate, with a sigh. "Come around at this hour of morning, disturbing honest folks. Go ahead, and tear the old tower to pieces if you like. But I'll he hound you won't find anything. It's all foolishness. You won't find anything."\par
Consent having heen given, Hurd Applegate led the way through the gloomy halls and corridors of the mansion toward the old tower. He was inclined to share his sister's view that the hoys' search would he in vain.\par
"Might as well save yourselves the trouble," he declared. "You won't find anything in the old tower. If anything was hidden there it's been taken away by this time."\par
"We'll make a try at it, anyway, Mr. Apple-gate."\par
"Don't ask me to help you. I've got better things to do. Just got some new stamps in this morning and you interrupted me when I was sortin' them out. I've got to get back to my work."\par
The man led the way into a corridor that was heavy with dust. It had not been in use for a long time and it was bare and unfurnished. Leading off this corridor was a heavy door. It\par
The Search of the Tower 15S\par
was unlocked, and when Mr. Applegate opened It the boys saw that a flight of stairs lay beyond.\par
"There you are. Those stairs lead up into tthe tower. Search away. You won't find anything."\par
"I hope we do, Mr. Applegate," said Frank, \i 06And \i0 I'm pretty sure we shall."\par
"Yes-boys are always goin' to do wonderso Clo ahead. Live and learn. Waste your time,9*\par
And with this parting shot, Hurd Applegate turned and hobbled back along the corridor, th\'ae sheet of stamps still in his gnarled hand. H\'a9 was muttering to himself as he departed. Ths> Hardy boys looked at one another.\par
"Not very encouraging, is he, Frank?"\par
"Not a bit of it= But it will be so much th\'ae Ibetter for us if we get the stuff back for him. He won't think we were wasting our time theno"\par
"Let's get up into the tower. I'm anxious to start."\par
The tower was about five stories in height^ as compared with the rest of the mansion, which laad but three stories. The lower floor was empty. The floors and walls were heavy with dust. Frank and Joe first examined the stairs carefully for footprints, but there were none to be seen.\par
"That seems queer," remarked Frank. "If Jackley had been in here within the past montfe\par
152 The Tower Treasure\par
you'd think his footprints would still show. By the appearance of this dust, there hasn't been any one in the tower for at least a year."\par
"Perhaps the dust collects more quickly than we think. It may have covered his footprints \i over \i0 even within a couple of weeks."\par
An inspection of the ground floor revealed the fact that there was no place where the loot could have been hidden, save under the stairs, and there was nothing in that place of concealment. Accordingly, the Hardy boys ascended to the next floor, finding themselves in a room as drab and bare as the one they had just left, Here again the dust lay heavy and the murky windows were thick with cobwebs. There was an atmosphere of age and decay about the entire place. It seemed to have been abandoned for years.\par
"Nothing here," said Frank, after a quick glance around. '' On we go."\par
They made their way up to the next floor, after again poking about under the stairs, but again without success.\par
The next room was a duplicate of the first. It was bare and cheerless, deep in dust. There was not the slightest sign of a hiding place* Much less was there any indication that another human being had been in the tower for years,\par
"Doesn't look very promising, Joe. Still, ie may have gone right to the top of the tower."\par
The Search of the Tower 153\par
So the search continued, until at last the Hardy boys had reached the top of the tower* Here they emerged into the open air, coming through a trapdoor that led through the roof from the upper room. They were now standing on a platform, and far below them lay the city of Bayport. To the east was Barmet Bay, the waters sparkling in the sun.\par
The platform was quite bare. The stone walls gave no opportunity of a hiding place. Their search had been in vain.\par
"We were fooled, I guess," Frank admitted, "There hasn't been any one in this tower for years. I knew it as soon as I saw there were no footprints."\par
The boys gazed moodily down over the city, and then down over the grounds of Tower Mansion. The roofs of the mansion itself were far below, and directly across from them rose the heavy bulk of the new tower.\par
"Do you think he might have meant the \i new \i0 tower?" exclaimed Joe suddenly.\par
"Dad said he specified the old one."\par
"But he may have been mistaken. In the darkness and everything, perhaps he didn't know the difference.''\par
"That's possible, too. It's certain that he didn't hide anything in this tower, at any rate. Although why he should say 'the o!4 tower'-"\par
254 The Tower Treasure\par
"Let's ask Mr. Applegate if we can searct, 4he new tower, too."\par
"What a fine chance we have! He'll crou5 over us now in real earnest when we go hack and tell him we didn't find anything. He'll \i say \i0 "I told you so', and if we try to get into the new tower he'll just laugh at us."\par
6'It's worth trying, anyway. We can tell Mm the whole story about Jackley0 That ought to convince him."\par
Disappointed, the Hardy hoys descended through the trapdoor, and then made their way down through the tower until at last they were Sn the long gloomy hallway again. Their clothes were covered with dust and their hands and faces were grimy. Slowly, they trudged back into the main part of the mansion again* and there they met Adelia Applegate, who popped out of a doorway as they were passing and cackled with delight.\par
"So these are the fine boys who were going to find the stolen stuff for us, eh!" she ex= daimed, in her cracked voice,, "So these are 4he boys who were so sure it was hidden in the Jttld tower! Well, well! And they didn't find anything after all!"\par
"I'm afraid we didn't, Miss Applegate/" Frank answered, with a smile. "But if yoia &nd Mr. Applegate will let us tell our story I j|Mnk we can convince you that we really\par
The Search of the Tower\par
ffiought the stuff was hidden there. Even yei\} 31 believe it is hidden somewhere in the man-, sion-probably in the new tower."\par
'' In the new tower!" she sniffed. '' Absurd \i I I \i0 suppose you'll want to go poking througl there now."\par
"If it wouldn't be too much trouble."\par
"It \i would \i0 be too much trouble, indeed!" she shrilled. "I shan't have any boys rummaging all through \i my \i0 house on a wild-goose chase like this. You'd better leave right away, and forget all this nonsense."\par
Her voice had attracted the attention of Hurd Applegate, who came hobbling out of his study at that moment.\par
"Now what's the matter?" he demanded. Then, seeing the boys, his face became creased In a triumphant smile.\par
"Ah, ha! So you didn't find anything after all! Heh! Heh!" he began to chuckle, im-imensely pleased with himself. "I told you\par
CHAPTER\par
the new toweb\par
"they have the audacity to want to go looking through the new tower now," said Miss Applegate, in high indignation.\par
Hurd Applegate's smile vanished.\par
"You can't do anything of the sort!" he snapped. "Are you boys trying to make a fool out of me? I knew mighty well you wouldn't find anything in the old tower."\par
"And we were pretty sure we would," answered Frank. "Listen, Mr. Applegate-we'll be fair with you. We'll tell you exactly why we wanted to make this search."\par
"Go ahead and tell me. Why didn't you tell me before?"\par
" Because we wanted to work this out ourselves, as far as possible. But the informa= tion we had came from the man who stole the jewels and the bonds."\par
"What! Has he been caught?'*\par
"He was captured-but he will never com\'ae te trial'*\par
156\par
TEe New Tower 157\par
he escape again?"\par
"He escaped-by death. The thief is dead,95\par
"Dead? What happened?" asked Hurd Applegate excitedly.\par
"His name was Bed Jackley, and he was a notorious criminal. He was tracked down by our father, and when he tried to escape on a railroad hand-car he got into a smash-up, and he was fatally injured. But before he died, he admitted robbing Tower Mansion.\par
"He admitted it? He confessed?"\par
"He confessed everything."\par
"I don't believe it," sniffed Adelia Apple-gate. "Nothing will ever convince me that it wasn't that rascal Eobinson."\par
"Jackley confessed the whole business," Frank persisted. "And on his deathbed he said that he hadn't been able to get away witb the loot. That he had hidden it."\par
"Where?"\par
"In the old tower."\par
"And it isn't there?"\par
"Joe and I have just searched the place high and low. The stuff isn't there. And from the fact that there are no footprints or marks of any kind in the dust, I don't think any one has been in the place for a long time."\par
"The old tower has been closed for years.n\par
"So we thought," Joe interjected, "that he might have been mistaken and that he had\par
158 The Tower Treasure\par
really hidden the stuff in the new tower Sffik stead."\par
Hurd Applegate rubhed his chin meditatively. His manner toward the boys had undergone a change, and it was evident that he was impressed by their story.\par
"So this fellow confessed to the robbery,\par
"He admitted everything. He was a man who once worked around Bayport and he knew this locality pretty well. He had been hanging around the city for some days before the robbery."\par
"Well," said Applegate slowly, "if he says lie hid the stuff in the old tower and it isn't there, he must have meant the new tower, just as you say."\par
"Will you let us search it?"\par
"I'll do more than that. I'll help you. I'm just as anxious to get the jewels and bonds back as anybody."\par
"All nonsense!" declared Adelia Applegate. "It's all a pack of falsehoods. I don't believe ai word of it."\par
"Now, now, Adelia," said her brother soothingly, "these boys may be right after all. It Won't hurt to take a look around, at any rate."\par
"And much you'll find, I'm sure! I declare, Hurd Applegate? you're just as bad as thos\'ae Iboys are.**\par
The New Tower\par
" Maybe, maybe," he answered. '''But going to help them search the new tower, anyway."\par
"Don't ask \i me \i0 to brush the dust off yonaf clothes when you come back, then. For that9\'a9 all you'll get. Dust. Nothing more. Th\'a9 jewels and bonds are no more in the new toweff than they are back in the safe right now."\par
"All right, Adelia. Perhaps you're right, But it won't hurt to make a search, anyway*, Come on, boys."\par
"With that, Hurd Applegate led the way down the hall and opened the door leading to a corri= dor that extended toward the new tower0 Frank and Joe, tingling with excitement, followed.\par
Although the new tower had been built just a few years back and although its rooms had been furnished, it had been seldom occupied;, save on the rare occasions when the Applegates had visitors from the city. The new caretaker, employed to replace Robinson, was a lazy and slovenly fellow, who did not bother to extend his duties to the tower, knowing that the Applegates seldom went near that part of th\'a9 mansion and realizing that any laxity in his duties in that respect would scarcely be discovered. It came as a surprise to Hurd Apple-gate, then, to find out that the new tower was dusty, that the windows had not been cleaned, Shat there were cobwebs on the ceilings.\par
160 The Tower Treasure\par
In the first room they found nothing, although they rummaged about in all the cornersp looked beneath the table, behind the chairs- looked everywhere, in fact. Not until they were quite satisfied that the loot had not been Sudden there, did they ascend the stairs to the mext room, and there again their search was fruitless.\par
Hurd Applegate, being a quick-tempered man, fell back into his old mood. The boys' story had convinced him, and he had been even more certain than they that the stolen bonds and jewels would indeed be found in the new tower. But when two of the tower rooms had been thoroughly searched without success, his disappointment increased.\par
"Don't believe there was anything in that yarn, after all," he muttered, as they went up the stairs to the third room.\par
"I don't see why he should lie about it, after he confessed," remarked Frank thoughtfully. "Dad told us that he admitted not being able to get away with the stuff."\par
"Then where did he hide it?" demanded Applegate. "If he wasn't lying, the stuff must be around here some place."\par
"Perhaps he hid it a little more carefully than we imagine," put in Joe.\par
"Haven't we hunted carefully enough!5" Hurd Applegate snapped.\par
The New Tower 161\par
In the third room their search was again in\par
vain. They even inspected the window ledges and tapped the floors and ceiling in the faint hope of finding some secret cupboard that was unknown to them.\par
But the loot was not found.\par
When at last they emerged through the trapdoor in the roof, out on top of the rear tower, and found it to be bare and empty, Applegate could not disguise his chagrin.\par
"Wild-goose chase!" he snorted. "Adelia was right. I've been made a fool of."\par
"You don't think we would make up a story like that, do you, Mr. Applegate?" Frank asked,\par
"I don't see any reason why you should. But there's something wrong somewhere. I've wasted half a morning poking around through this confounded tower-all for nothing."\par
"So have we."\par
"If that fellow did hide the stuff in one of the towers, some one else must have come along and got it. That's the only way \i I \i0 can figure it out. He had some one working with him. Or else Robinson found the stuff-That's more likely! Probably Eobinson found th\'ae loot right after the robbery and kept it \i fof. \i0 himself."\par
"1 don't think he would do that. He isnfj that kind of man," Joe objected.\par
"With \i aJl \i0 that rnone^ **> front of himf f\par
^62 The Tower Treasure\par
Wouldn't put it past him for a minute.\par
3id he get that nine hundred dollars, thenf\par
Explain that. He can't. He won't tell."\par
As they descended the stairs and went back Sato the main part of the mansion, Hurd Applegate elaborated on this theory. The fact that the loot had not been found in the face of Bed Jackley's story, seemed to strengthen his Conviction that Bobinson had something to do with the affair.\par
"Either Robinson found the stuff and kept it, or else he was in league with Jackley!" said Applegate. "He's mixed up in it some way. I'm sure of that."\par
The boys could say nothing. They realized that the theory was probable, although in their hearts they found it hard to believe that their chum's father could have had anything to do with the theft. They were deeply puzzled and tremendously disappointed, for they had been practically certain that the loot would be found, Now they saw that the only consequence of the Whole affair was to involve Mr. Eobinson more Seeply than ever in the mystery.\par
Back in the hallway they endured the taunts* itof Adelia Applegate, who cackled jubilantly %hen she saw that the searching party had r&\'bb tamed empty-handedc\par
"There now!" she crowed,, "Who's righfl gaowf Didn't I tell you it was all nonsensejj\par
The New Tower 163\par
Hurd Applegate, you've simply been made \i & \i0 fool of by these two boys." "Now, Adelia, I think they meant well-" "Meant well! Of course they meant well! And what did it gain you? They have prowled through the place all morning and all the good that's come of it is that perhaps you won't be so ready to believe the next cock-and-bull story some one tells you. Go back to your stampSp Hurd Applegate, and let it be a lesson to \i you, As \i0 for you boys, you should be ashamed off ^ourselves, disturbing folks like this!"\par
Whereupon she escorted the Hardy boys to the door, while Hurd Applegate, muttering sadly, went back to Ms study with a puzzled air.\par
CHAPTEB\par
the mystery deepeks\par
fenton hahdy was dumbfounded when his sons returned to him with the news that the loot had been found in neither the old tower nor the new. So implicitly had he believed in the dying confession of Bed Jackley that he had not even bothered to join in the search, preferring to let his sons have the satisfaction of recovering the stolen goods that he was positive were hidden in the old tower.\par
"And you're sure you searched the place thoroughly?" he asked, for the third time.\par
"Every inch of it. There was nothing in the old tower. No one had been there in weeks,K, answered Frank.\par
"How could you tell ?"\par
"By the dust. It hadn't been disturbed, ^Phere wasn't a footprint of any kind."\par
"But you searched anyway."\par
**We went through the tower from top to finottom," Frank replied. "It wasn't any use,, one had been tbere. So then we thought\par
164\par
The Mystery Deepens\par
Buckley might have been mistaken and that Sns had left the stuff in the other tower."\par
"And Applegate let you search that ffis well?" and Fenton Hardy's eyes twinkled.\par
"Not until we had told him our reasons. W\'a9 told him about Jackley, and then he became enthusiastic and even helped us in the search^ But we didn't find anything."\par
"Strange," muttered the detective. ?<SI know Jackley wasn't lying. He had nothing t\'a9 gain by deceiving me. Absolutely nothing. H*8 was in real earnest if ever a man was. 'I hid it in the old tower.' Those were his words. h\'80 would have told more if he had been ablec And what could he mean but the old tower of Tower Mansion? Why should he be so careful to say the \i old \i0 tower. Every one knows the mansion has two towers, the old and the new.'"\par
"Of course, it may be that we didn't search thoroughly enough," Joe said. "The stuff may be hidden in the flooring or behind the walls."\par
"That's the only solution I can think of/7 replied Fenton Hardy. "I'm not satisfied yet that the loot isn't there. I'm going to get im touch with Applegate and ask permission for ffi real, thorough search of both towers. It's t\'ae Ms interest as well as mine."\par
"Applegate thinks possibly Jackley hid the stuff all right but that Eobinson found it and\par
-The Tower Treasure\par
it," said Frank "He hinted that he \\irw!>\par
\i '&f \i0 the opinion that Eobinson was in leagu\'ae Irith the thief."\par
"It does look rather bad," Mr. Hardy admitted. "One couldn't blame Applegate very, much for thinking Eobinson found the stuff after it was hidden and made away with it."\par
" Robinson wouldn't do that!" cried Joe, 8liHe's too honest I"\par
"I don't think he would do it, either. Bu8 sometimes, if a man is in need of money amid\} temptation is placed in his way, he gives iau I'd hate to believe that of Eobinson, but if Hihat stuff isn't found in the tower I'll have to admit that it looks very much as if he were mixed up in it."\par
The interview with their father left the Hardy boys feeling far from cheerful, for they saw that Mr. Eobinson was now more deeply Involved in the affair than before. On the face of it, circumstances seemed to be against the caretaker.\par
"Just the same," said Frank, as the boys left the house and went down the street, "I \i 'don't \i0 believe Jackley ever hid the stuff in the tower. If he had ever so much as opened the tower door he would have left some marks in the dust and we would have seen them. So I 8on't believe Eobinson came along later and got the loot"\par
The Mystery Deepens\par
*\'abAs we saw it, the dust in the tower toeen disturbed in weeks. Why, there was even Sust on the door-knob, when Mr. Applegate lei Qs in."\par
"'Then, why should Jackley say he hid th\'a9 stuff there?" exclaimed Frank, puzzled.\par
"Don't ask \i me, \i0 I'm just as much in th\'ae 9ark as you are."\par
When the boys reached the business sectiom of the city they found that already Jackley 9@ confession had become common property^ People were discussing the deathbed confes= sion on the street corners and newsboys were busy selling copies of papers in which the story of the criminal's last statement was fea= tured on the front page under black headlines,,\par
Policeman Con Riley was ambling along Main Street in the morning sunshine, swinging his club with the air of a man without a car\'a9 in the world. When he saw the boys n$ frowned, for there was no love lost between \bullet  Hardys and the Bayport police department,,\par
"Well," he grunted, "I hear you got Stuff back."\par
"I wish we had," said Frank.\par
"What?" said the constable, brightening up at once. "You didn't get it? I thought it said ib the paper this morning that this fellow Jacfe\'bb ley told where he had hidden it."\par
"He did."\par
268 The Tower Treasure\par
"And you can't find it! Ho! Ho!" Con Riley indulged in a hearty laugh. "What a fine detective your father is! Didn't Jackley say the stuff was hidden in the old tower f "What more does he want?"\par
"Our father didn't search for the stuff," retorted Frank. ""We did. And it wasn't there. Jackley must have made a mistake."\par
"It wasn't there?" exclaimed Riley, in high lelight. "That's a good one. That's the best iVe heard in years." He chuckled exceedingly, and slapped his knee. "Jackley put a good one over on your father that time. Ho! Ho! Ho! The stuff wasn't there!"\par
Riley wiped the tears from his eyes and went on his way, trying to laugh and at the same time retain his dignity as an officer of the law. The joke, he decided, was too good to keep, so as he proceeded back toward the police station, there to edify Chief Collig and Detective Smuff with the tale, he buttonholed various passers-by and poured the story into their willing ears. It was not long before the yarn had spread throughout the city with that swiftness peculiar to stories spread by word of mouth, and in the telling the story was exaggerated, the net effect being that Fenton Hardy was made to look ridiculous by believing a false confession.\par
Highly colored accounts of the boys' searcK\par
The Mystery Deepens 169\par
ur the old tower quickly spread, and throughout the day they were subjected to many caustic and sarcastic inquiries on the part of friends and acquaintances alike. They took all these remarks in good part, although they did not enjoy their sudden prominence.\par
"Never mind," said Frank, "we'll show them yet."\par
"I hope they find that stuff when they search the towers again," added Joe. "Then the people will have to eat crow. It'll be our turn to laugh."\par
"Yes," agreed Frank; "but just now our laughter seems to be in a far-distant future.'1\par
When they returned home they found that Fenton Hardy had been busy in the meantime and had convinced Kurd Applegate that a thorough search of the towers would be advisable0 True, he had not accomplished this without a great deal of opposition on the part of Adelia and without misgivings on the part of Hurd Applegate himself, who had by that time come to the conclusion that Eobinson had indeed been mixed up in the affair all along.\par
In this conviction he was sustained by Chief Collig, who had paid a call at the Applegate home as soon as Collig had told him of the vain search of the towers.\par
"The chief says Robinson is behind it, and I'm beginnin' to think he's right," said Applegata\par
170 The Tower Treasure\par
"But how about the confession!" Mr. Hardy isked.\par
"The chief says that's all a blind. Jackley did it to protect Eobinson. They were both, working together."\par
"I know it looks bad for Eobinson, but I ion't think it would hurt to give the towers another thorough search. I was the one who beard Jackley make the confession and I don't Relieve he was lying. I believe he was trying to tell me all he knew."\par
"Maybe. Maybe. I think he was too smart for you, Mr. Hardy, and everybody else thinks so too. It was all a hoax."\par
"I'll believe that after I've searched the towers inside and out."\par
"Well, go ahead. Go as far as you like. But I don't think you'll find that treasure."\par
"With that, Mr. Hardy was content. He made preparations for a search of the towers, although Adelia Applegate flatly declared that the detective was making a laughing-stock of her and her brother and that if the nonsense continued she would leave Tower Mansion forever and carry out her oft-expressed intention of going to one of the South Sea Islands as a missionary.\par
In spite of the protestations of the worthy lady, however, the search was carried out. The tower was visited first, and for the greater\par
The Mystery Deepens\par
part of the following morning the place wa\'a7 searched from top to bottom. Even the floors were torn up in places in the quest for some secret hiding place in which Jackley might have left the loot.\par
But although Fenton Hardy, accompanied! by the boys and Hurd Applegate, who soon be^ came infected with the dogged enthusiasm of the others and lent every assistance in his power, hunted throughout the old tower in every conceivable place, the missing jewels and bonds were not recovered.\par
"Nothing left but to search the new tower,'1" Mr. Hardy commented briefly, when the searcfe, was over, and throughout the whole afternoon the new tower was the scene of a search that was as thorough as it was fruitless.\par
Walls and partitions were tapped, floors were sounded, furniture was minutely examined-not an inch of space escaped the minute scrutiny of the detective and his helpers, But as the search wore on and the loot still evaded discovery, the chagrin of Fenton Hardy deepened and Hurd Applegate finally lost his temper.\par
"A hoax!" he declared. "A hoax froxm start to finish."\par
"The man was in earnest 1" the detective Sa-pisted.\par
\'absThen where is the stuff!'"\par
'"72 The Tower Treasure\par
"'Some one else may have found it* Thatte ihe only explanation I can think of."\par
"Who else could have taken it but Robin son!"\par
To this, Mr. Hardy was silent. In spite of tois knowledge of and liking for the man, he was beginning to suspect that the caretaker may have had a hand in the affair after all.\par
"Either that or Jackley simply told that farn to shield Robinson," declared Applegate.\par
"I'm not going to give up this search yet," said Mr. Hardy patiently. "Perhaps the loot was hidden somewhere about the grounds."\par
So the grounds of Tower Mansion, particularly in the vicinity of the two towers, were thoroughly searched. The shrubbery was in-' spected but to no avail.\par
The search continued until sundown, and by that time Adelia Applegate was pale with wrath, for the place, as she expressed it, had been "turned upside down," Hurd Applegate was outspoken in his rage and disappointment, while I'enton Hardy was deeply chagrined As for the boys, although they had expected that the additional search would be without success, they shared their father's bewilderment.\par
"I can't understand it," admitted the detective. "I could have sworn that Jackley was tm earnest when he made that confession. He\par
The Mystery Deepens 173\par
fenew he was near death and that he had notbi ang to gain by concealment. I can't under stand it at all.'?\par
And there the mystery remained,; deepen it had ever been.\par
CHAPTER XX\par
the flash in the toweb\par
fob two days after the unsuccessful seareK \'abtf Tower Mansion, there were no further developments in the affair of the robbery. But ton the third day, Chief Collig took a hand.\par
The first intimation the Hardy boys had of \i it \i0 was when they met Callie Shaw and Tola Morton on their way to school. Tola, a plump, dark girl, was a sister of Chet Morton and had achieved the honor of being about the only girl Joe Hardy had ever conceded to be anything but an unmitigated nuisance.\par
Joe, who was shy in the presence of girls* professed a lofty scorn for all members of the other sex, particularly those of high school age, but had once grudgingly admitted that lola Morton was "all right, for a girl." This, from him, was high praise.\par
"Have you heard what's happened?" askecS Cfallie, as they met the boys near the school entrance.\par
"School called off for to-day!" asked J\'a9i\par
174\par
The Flash in the Tower\par
*'No, no. Nothing like that. It's about Bobinsons."\par
"What's happened now?"\par
"Mr. Eobinson has been arrested again.'9\par
The Hardy boys stared at her as thougSa thunderstruck.\par
"What for?" demanded Frank, in astonisii\'bb ment.\par
"Over that robbery at Tower Mansion. H\'ae has been working in the city lately and Chief Collig sent Detective Smuff for him last nighl lola and I were over to see the Eobinson girls last night and they told us about it. Smufl? should be back by now."\par
"Well, can you beat that!" exclaimed Frank, "I wonder what's the big idea of arresting him again?"\par
"It seems the chief has an idea that Mr. Eobinson was in league with this man Jackley, the man your father got the confession from. He told Mrs. Eobinson last night that he was sur\'ae Mr. Eobinson had the stuff hidden somewher\'ae and that he was going to find out. He was perfectly mean and nasty about it, and Mrs. Eofr inson doesn't know what to do."\par
The Hardy boys looked at one another. \i Th\'ae \i0 affair had suddenly assumed more serious proportions.\par
"If Mr. Eobinson is brought back, he'll loss his job, and he had a hard time getting it, ' said lola.\par
176 The Tower Treasure\par
"The worst of it is," said Frank slowly,, 4'that the case looks pretty bad against Mrt Robinson."\par
"You don't think they'll send \ul him\ulnone  to the penitentiary?"\par
4' It looks bad. The thief said he hid the stuff in the old tower. When we looked for it, the stuff wasn't there. About the only person that could have found it and taken it away, was Mr. Robinson himself."\par
"He wouldn't do it!" declared Tola indignantly.\par
"We're sure he wouldn't. But a jury mightn't be so easy to convince."\par
It was time to go into school at that moment and they went to their classrooms, Frank and Joe deeply worried by what they had just heard. At recess that morning they met Jerry, Phil, Tony and Chet Morton, and told them the news. All the boys were highly concerned over this sudden turn in events.\par
"This will be tough on Perry," said Phil.\par
"It'll be tough on the whole family," Chet declared. "They've had enough trouble over this dirty affair as it is."\par
The boys discussed the situation from all angles and racked their brains for some way whereby they could help the Robinsons, but they were reluctantly forced to admit that only !jy actual discovery of the hidden loot could\par
The Plash in the Tower 17?\par
Mr. Robinson be cleared of suspicion in connection with the robbery.\par
"Even if he were tried and acquitted, it would be a stain on his reputation for the rest of his life, as long as the treasure isnt recovered," Frank summed up.\par
"We'll just have to wait and see what hap* pens," Joe said. "We've done all we could, and it hasn't been enough."\par
"And dad has done the same. I'm sorry, on his account. He was so sure he had cleared the whole thing up when he got the confession from Jackley. But there was something lacking."\par
"Well, we all helped too," remarked Jerry. "We kept Collig and Smuff from catching that train. Jackley wouldn't have talked at all it they had seen him."\par
So, reluctantly enough, the boys were forced to admit that they were facing a stone wall. This also was the conclusion of Fenton Hardy, when they talked to him at lunch that day.\par
"There's nothing to be done," said the detective. "Robinson has been arrested, and while he might be cleared by a skilful lawyer^ he hasn't any money to spend on his defence. Whether he is cleared or not, his reputation ia ruined."\par
*'Unless the loot is found," put in Joe.\par
'\bullet 'Yes, unless the loot is found. That \i Is \i0 hit.\par
$78 The Tower Treasure\par
\'a9nly hope* But I don't think there's much ehance of that."\par
And there the mystery of Tower Mansion rested for the time being. The arrest of Mr Eobinson furnished a sensation for a day or so and then the case receded into the background, the newspapers finding other things to become excited about. But for the Eobinsona It was, naturally enough, a matter of supreme moment. Perry Kobinson paid a call at the Hardy home, pleading with the great detective to continue his efforts to clear the accused man.\par
Mr. Hardy was sympathetic, but, as he said, lie was facing a stone wall.\par
"I've done all I can, my boy," he explained to the grief-stricken lad. "If there was anything more I could do, I would do it. But there are no more clues. If Bed Jackley's confea sion couldn't clear up the affair, then nothing else could. I'm afraid-"\par
He left the sentence unfinished.\par
!4Do you mean my father will go to jailf *s\par
J*I wouldn't say that. But you must be pared to face the worst.''\par
-4He didn't do it," said Perry doggedly.\par
S4I know you have confidence in him. Hhe law looks only at the facts. Many an i \i sent \i0 man has been convicted \'a9n less evidence.'\par
?ilt will kill my mother.'2"\par
Mr* Hardy was silent.\par
The Flash in the Tower 119\par
"I don't know what to do," said Perry, r'"Pd do anything to save him. But there'ft Slothing-"\par
"There is nothing any of us can do now unless by some lucky chance the loot is recovered, That would clear everything up, of course, But in the meantime we just have to wait and hope."\par
"And you can't do anything more, Mr, Hardy?"\par
"A detective is not a miracle man, my boy," said Fenton Hardy kindly. "He is only a man who is trained in tracing criminals. He has to go by the facts at his disposal. I have ex hausted every line of action in this case Everything that could be done, has been done.95\par
Perry Eobinson got up, twisting his cap nervously in his hands.\par
"We all thank you very much too, Mr\'ab Hardy," he said huskily. "Don't think I've been ungrateful by coming here and asking you to do more. I guess I didn't realize just how hopeless it is."\par
"It isn't hopeless, exactly. Don't think lihat. There's always hope, you know. But- ire prepared for the worst,"\par
"111 have to be."\par
With that, the boy left. Frank and Joe me4 Sim in the hallway and awkwardly tried to ei\'bb press their sympathy. Perry was grateful\par
180 The Tower Treasure\par
"I know both of you have done a lot for tis in this mess," he said. "If it hadn't been for you we wouldn't even have Jackley's story to go on."\par
"We're only sorry it didn't work out as we hoped, Perry," Frank said. "We thought that would clear the whole thing up. Instead, it seems to have involved your father deeper than ever."\par
"It wasn't your fault."\par
"Perhaps something will turn up yet. Joe and I aren't going to lie down on the job now. There isn't much we can do, but we'll have our eyes open for more clues-if there are any."\par
Perry Eobinson shrugged his shoulders dis-spiritedly. "I guess there isn't much use now," he said. "But I appreciate it of you."\par
When he went away, the Hardy boys watched him going down the front walk His carefree stride was gone, and instead he walked mechanically, as though in a daze.\par
"What a fine pair of detectives we are!" exclaimed Frank, in sudden disgust. "If we had been any good at all we could have got those clues soon enough for dad to have caught Jackley in time."\par
"'No use worrying about that now," replied\par
The Flash in the Tower 18f\par
his brother. "*It was just the way things pened."\par
"Well, there's one thing left We must that loot!"\par
"Haven't we tried?"\par
"Yes, but we can try some more. WeVe just \i got \i0 to clear Mr. Robinson. And there's only the one way. We must find the loot!"\par
It was a dull, gloomy day, indicative of rain and this did not add to the boys' spirits.\par
To ease their feelings the brothers took \i m \i0 walk, and quite unconsciously their steps took them in the vicinity of Tower Mansion.\par
"Let's have a squint at the old place from the outside," suggested Joe.\par
"Don't let Adelia see you, or she'll come after you with a broomstick," chuckled Frank, '"Gee, but she's a tartar I"\par
They walked into the grounds. It was growing darker now and they easily made their way among the trees and bushes to the vicinity of the rambling mansion. They gazed up at th\'ae old tower questioningly.\par
-'Some puzzle," was Frank's comment, ><3Will the case of The Tower Treasure ever bcs solved?"\par
"Search me!" was his brother's slangy answer, "Perhaps - oh, Frank, look!" he addecl suddenly.\par
He was gazing at the upper windows of\par
182 The Tower Treasure\par
\'a9Id stone tower* He had seen a strange flasK of light. Now this flash was followed by an-\par
"That's queer," muttered Frank. "What \'a9an it mean?"\par
The light disappeared, then of a sudden ift Sashed out and downward in the direction of the lads.\par
"Must be looking for us!" gasped Joe, and started to get behind a busk\par
"It's Adelia - and she has a big flashlight, " isame, a moment later, from Frank. "What do you know about that ! ' '\par
'* She's looking for the treasure herself!" cried Joe. "Huh! And after all she said about our looking being nothing but foolish mess I'*\par
They saw the woman gaze out of the window for a few seconds. In one hand she held th\'a9 flashlight. For a moment she turned the light into her own face, and the boys saw there ft look of utter disgust.\par
"Didn't find it, I'll bet a cookie!" chuckled Joe.\par
"Come on- let's get away before she spots as," returned his brother, and they were soon smi their way.\par
As they walked home, Joe and Frank talked the matter over. They smiled when they, thought of the eccentric woman up in thali\par
\i TB& \i0 Flash In'fhfc Tower\par
Hasty old tower, but their minds soon Stack to Slim and the troubles of the Robinson family,\par
"We've got to find that loot!" declare^ Frank emphatically. "No matter where lower treasure is, we've got to find it I"8\par
e'Gotto-butcanwef"\par
wWe simply have to, I tell you!"\par
CHAPTER XXI A new idea\par
.d week passed, and still the loot was not te-levered.\par
Mr. Robinson had been held for trial at an early court session. The general opinion in Bayport was that he would be sentenced to im prisonment. The fact that he still refused tc tell where he had got the nine hundred dollars so near the time of the robbery, weighed fieavily against him.\par
Fenton Hardy was downcast. It was the first case of its kind that he had been unsuccess ful in solving completely, and although he was satisfied that he had done good work in track ing down Red Jackley and getting the confession, the result had scarcely been worth the affort.\par
Chief Collig and Detective Smuff were complacent. They made no effort to conceal their \'a9ritical opinions of the great detective, who iad taken so much time trying to solve the mystery, when the real thief was right under Ms nose all the time.\par
184\par
A :New Idea 185\par
"I told you so," was the burden of Chief sJoHig's song of triumph. "I knew all the tim\'a9 that Bobinson was the man. I arrested him right after the robbery, but they all Baid ift souldn't be him. So I let \ul him\ulnone  go. But T knew; all the time it couldn't be any one else. Aim "ft that so, Smuff?"\par
And the loyal Smuff would dutifully chima in with, "Yes, chief. We have to hand it it\'ae you. You had the right man all the time."\par
"I guess these professional detectives won*i think they're so smart after all, eh, Smuff!'*\par
"No, you bet they won't. We can still teacH em a thing or two."\par
" I '11 say we can, Smuff. I '11 say we can.''\par
These stories, naturally enough, reached th\'ab ears of Fenton Hardy and the Hardy boys and ;hey felt keenly the arrogant superiority displayed by the Bayport police officials. Emit they said nothing, suffering their defeat ia silence.\par
On the following Saturday, Frank and Joe decided to take an outing.\par
"I want to get out of this city for a 'aours," said Frank. "We've been so worrying about the Tower Mansion case thai spe've forgotten how to play. Let's take tha motorbikes and go out for a run."\par
"Good idea!" his brother replied. '*Mothcsae nil make us up some lunch,'*\par
186 The Tower Treasure\par
Hardy, who was in the kitchen with the eook, smiled when they made known their request,, Fair-haired and gentle, she had been tolerantly amused by her sons' activities in the Tower affair, but she was glad to see them return to their boyish ways.\par
"You'll be getting too grown-up altogether,*1 she had said to them a few days previously. And now, when they said they were going on \i & \i0 day's outing with the motorcycles, she hastened to prepare a substantial lunch for them*\par
6 * We '11 be back in time for supper, mother,1^ Frank promised. "We're just going to follow She highway along the railroad. After that w\'a9 may cut across country to Chet's place, and ithen home."\par
*'Take care of yourself," she warned. "No speeding."\par
"We'll be careful," they promised, as Joe stowed the lunch basket on the carrier of his machine. Then, with a sputtering roar, the motorcycles sped out along the driveway and soon the boys were on the concrete highway leading out of the city.\par
In a short time they had reached the outskirts of Bayport, and then they turned west \'aeb to the State highway that ran parallel to (the railway tracks. It was a bright, sunny spring morning, and the highway was not cob with traffic\par
A New Idea 187\par
Freight trains shunted back and forth on the railway tracks below the embankment, and now and then a passenger train steamed by, trailing a cloud of black smoke. Like most boyss Frank and Joe could not help but feel the fascination of the railway, although they admitted that they perferred the comparative freedom of their own motorcycles, which were not bound to follow the steel rails and did not have to obey the beck and call of despatchers.\par
Out in the open country they put on a little more speed. The highway was like a city pavement beneath them and the cool breeze stung the color into their cheeks. For more than two hours they rode, passing through villages and small towns, until at last they came to a point where another railway intersected the line they had been following. Here, a road also ran parallel to the tracks, branching off the main highway. Always on the alert for new country to explore, the Hardy boys decided to follow this side road.\par
"It's off the main stream of traffic," said Frank, "and the country seems to be wooded farther on. We can have lunch in the shade of some trees."\par
This appeared to be an advantage, for there were no trees along the State road, and the con>-stant stream of vehicles made a roadside lunch (something of a public affair. Accordingly, the\par
188 The Tower Treasure\par
boys turned their motorcycles down the side road which, although it was not paved, was well graded, and led through a quieter countryside.\par
"What railroad is this, anyway?" asked Frank, as they sped along.\par
"The Bayport and Coast line. It's mostly freight."\par
"The Bayport and Coast! Why, that's the railway that Eed Jackley used to work for, Don't you remember dad telling us that? His first crime was stealing freight from the road."\par
" So he did! I'd forgotten all about it.''\par
The boys looked down at the tracks belou the embankment with renewed interest, by virtue of the railway's association with the notorious criminal. Mention of Jackley's name revived recollections of the Tower Mansion case, and when the boys finally decided to stop in the shade of a little grove of trees beside the road for lunch, they reviewed every incident -of the mysterious affair.\par
"It would have been better for every one if Jackley had stayed with the railway," Frank observed, as he bit into a thick roastbeef sandwich.\par
"He sure caused a lot of trouble before he died."\par
\bullet 'And he has caused even more since, by the\par
\i S. \i0 New Idea\par
jiooks of things. The Robinsons will remember Ms name for a long time to come."\par
"I wonder if Mr. Eobinson really was in league with him, Frank?"\par
"I don't think so. And I don't believe Mr. Eobinson ever found that treasure after the robbery, either. There is some explanation to this whole affair that none has been able to fathom."\par
"If I remember rightly, it was in this part of the country that Jackley worked."\par
"That's what dad told us. He said it was along the right of way near the State roado Jackley was a section hand or signalman, or something."\par
Both boys gazed down the two lines of railway tracks that gleamed in the sun. Far into the distance, the glittering bands of steel ex tended, vanishing into a common perspective.\par
The land along the right of way was thickly wooded. It was an attractive part of the country and here and there the wooded spaces were broken by green fields and meadows. The boys were at the top of a slope, and they had a vie'* of a wide expanse of country below them.\par
In the far distance, along the tracks, they could see a little red railway station, and back of that the roofs and spires of a village. Nearer still they could see the spindly legs and squat bulk of a *~ater tank, painted a bright\par
190 The Tower Treasure\par
scarlet. This water tank was not far from railway station, but half a mile down the track? and only a few hundred yards from the place where the Hardy boys were seated, rose the bulk of another water station.\par
But this tower-one of the old style built before the modern tanks came into use-was not freshly painted. It had been allowed to fall into a state of disrepair. Some of the rungs were missing from the ladder that led up the side, and the tower itself had a forlorn and weather-beaten aspect, as though it had been deserted. This, indeed, was the case. The new tower tank closer to the station had been erected to replace it, and although the old structure had not been torn down, it was not now used.\par
Frank took a huge bite out of his sandwich and began to munch it thoughtfully. The sight of the two water stations had given him an idea, but at first it seemed to him to be too absurd for consideration. He was wondering whether he should mention it to his brother.\par
Then he noticed that Joe, too, was gazing thoughtfully down the railway tracks. Joe ffaised a sandwich to his lips absently, essayed a bite and missed the sandwich altogether. Still he continued gazing at the two water towers.\par
Finally Joe turned and looked at his brother\par
A New Idea 191-\par
Jn the eyes of both was the light of a great discovery. They knew that they were both thinking of the same thing.\par
"Two water towers," said Frank slowly,\par
*'An old one and a new one."\par
"And Jackley said-"\par
"He hid the stuff in the old tower.'"\par
"He was a railwayman."\par
**Why not?" shouted Joe, springing to me feet. "Why couldn't it have been the old wateff tower? He used to work around here."\par
"He didn't say the old tower of Tower Mansion, after all. He just said 'the old tower!*\i 9l\i0\par
"Frank, I believe we've stumbled on th\'ae due!"\par
"It would be the natural thing for him to come to his old haunts after the robbery. An<J if he found he couldn't get away with the stuff he would hide it somewhere he knew. The ol<? water tower! Why didn't we think of it bf *ow, J oe I Why, that \i must \i0 be the place!"\par
CHAPTER\par
the search\par
LtraTCH, motorcycles-everything else was forgotten!\par
"With a wild yell of delight, Frank began to scurry down the embankment that flanked the right of way. At his heels ran Joe.\par
They raced down the grassy slope until they came to the wire fence. They scrambled over it, heedless of tearing their clothes. They dashed lap on to the cinder path beside the rails.\par
"What if we're wrong, Frank?" panted Joe.\par
"We can't be wrong. I just know that's what Jackley meant. The old tower. It was the old \i water \i0 tower he meant all along. He didn't have time to explain."\par
The Hardy boys were tingling with excitement.\par
It seemed that they could never reach the water tower. They dashed along the cinder path with all the speed at their command, but tihe tower still seemed a long distance away.\par
The Search 193\par
"If only we \i have \i0 stumbled on the seeroft after all, Joe!"\par
"It'll clear Mr. Eobinson-"\par
"We'll get the reward-"\par
"Dad'11 be proud of us."\par
These thoughts gave them new strength ami their hopes were high as they neared the tower.\par
The structure reared gloomily from beside the tracks. At close quarters it was even mor\'a9 decrepit, even more in a state of disrepair than they had imagined. The old tower had been abandoned for some time in favor of the new tank nearer the station. It sagged perilously. The ladder that led to the top lacked so many rungs that at first the boys feared they would be unable to ascend.\par
"If Jackley got up this ladder, we can do th<8 same," said Frank, as he stopped, panting, at the bottom. "Let's go."\par
He began to scramble up the flimsy ladder.\par
Hardly had he ascended four rungs thaffi there came an alarming crack!\par
"Look out!"\par
Frank clung to the rung above, just as \i & \i0 rung snapped beneath his weight,, He hung ib midair for a moment, then drew up his feet and placed them on the next rung. This proved! firmer, and he was able to go on.\par
"Don't break 'em all," called Joe,, **I wamft to be in on this.'*\par
194 The Tower Treasure\par
Frank continued up the ladder. Occasion= ally, when he came to a place where a rung had broken off, he was obliged to haul himself upward by main force, but finally he neared the iop. The ladder ran up along the side of the tank to the very top of the great, vat-like re~ \'a9eptacle, and there it led to a trapdoor.\par
The Hardy boys did not look down. They were high above the ground now, and the old water tower was swaying alarmingly. They began to realize their peril, for the tower was old and liable to topple over with them. But the thought did not serve to restrain them, and at last Frank scrambled over the last rung and found himself on the upper surface of the tower. He turned around and helped Joe over.\par
Far below them lay the countryside, the green fields laid out in neat patterns, the roads in the distance like white ribbons, and the railway tracks glistening in the sunlight. The wind seemed much stronger on top of the tower, and it whistled about their eara. The flimsy structure swayed to and fro with every movement they made.\par
The trapdoor was closed, Frank went over to it and tugged at it, but the timber was heavy and Joe was obliged to help him0 Between the two, however, they managed to raise it, revealing a dark gap that led into the recesses of th@ abandoned water tower=\par
The Search 195\par
The upper part of the tank was a space aboufc four feet in depth and separated from the lower, or main portion by a thick floor. Frank lowered himself through the opening, and he was quickly followed by his brother. They crouched down below the roof of the tank and peered about them in the obscurity.\par
"It must be in here. There's no other place he could have hidden the stuff," said Frank.\par
"Let's hunt for it, then, I wish we had brought our flashlights."\par
Frank, however, had matches. Cautiously, lie lit one. Then, crawling on hands and knees, he advanced into the darkness of the tower.\par
In the faint glow of the match they saw thaft the place was half-filled with rubbish. There was a quantity of old lumber, miscellaneous bits of iron, battered tin pails, crowbars, and other things piled up pellmell in all parts o>\'a3 the tower.\par
But there was no sign of hidden loot.\par
"It must be here somewhere!" declared Jo\'ae doggedly. "He wouldn't leave it out in the apen0 Probably it's in behind all this junk,*9\par
Frank held the match. They had to be care-iul, for the place was as dry as tinder and any Negligence might have made the whole place D mass of flame from which there would hare\par
196 The Tower Treasure\par
been no escape. In the glow, then, Jo\'a9 searched frantically, casting the old pails and the old bits of board and lumber aside with reckless abandon.\par
One entire side of the tower top was searched without result. Then, on the far side, they spied a number of boards piled up in a peculiar manner. They did not look as though they had been flung there carelessly or accidentally, but rather as though they had been placed to hide something.\par
Like a terrier after a bone, Joe made for It, Frantically, he tore away the boards.\par
There, in a neat little hiding place formed by the wood, lay a bag. It was an ordinary gunny sack, but when Joe dragged it forth he knew at once that their search had ended.\par
" We've found it!" he exulted.\par
"The Tower treasure!"\par
"This must be it."\par
Joe dragged the gunny sack out into the light beneath the trapdoor. They did not even wait to go out on top of the water tower.\par
"Hurry!" exclaimed Frank, as with trem fbling fingers Joe began to open the sack.\par
It was tied with a piece of twine, and Joe tugged at the stubborn knots. At last, however, the twine fell away, and the bag sagged\par
Joe plunged his hand into the recesses of the\par
The Search 197\par
sack and he first withdrew an old-fashioned bracelet of precious stones.\par
"Jewelry!"\par
"How about the bonds?"\par
Again Joe groped into the sack. His fingers encountered a bulky packet. He withdrew it and the packet proved to be comprised of long, imposing-looking documents, held together by a rubber band. On the surface of the outer document, when they held it up to the light, they read the information that it was a negotiable bond for $5000 issued by the City of Bayport.\par
"That settles it," said Frank. "WeVe found the treasure."\par
The boys looked at one another in triumph,\par
"Jackley wasn't lying after all. He \i did \i0 hide the stuff in the old tower. And Mr. Robinson wasn't in league with him and didn't find it after it was hidden," ruminated Joe. "We can clear up the whole affair now."\par
"Let's start, then!" Frank exclaimed. "No use sitting here all day patting ourselves on the back. It's up to us to get right back to Bayport and turn this treasure over to the Applegates."\par
Hastily, he scrambled up through the trap, and Joe passed the bag of treasure up to him. Frank put the sack carefully to one side, then helped his brother up to the top of the tower.\par
198 The Tower Treasure\par
After that he tied the treasure sack to\par
in order that he might have the full use of hi\'ae\par
two hands in descending the precarious ladder,.\par
They were so excited by their momentous discovery, by the knowledge that all the days of fruitless search had now ended, that they descended the ladder at breakneck speed. The last two rungs of the ladder snapped under Frank's feet and the boys were obliged to undertake a drop of six feet in order to reach, the ground, but they hardly noticed it, Scarcely had they picked themselves up than they were off on a run for their motorcycles* parked far back on the hillside.\par
"We've shown 'em, eh?" gasped Joe.\par
"I'll say we have! Oh boy, won't this surprise everybody?"\par
\i "Now \i0 I'd like to see dad tell us we're not cut out to be detectives!"\par
"Wait till Adelia Applegate sees all her jewelry back again. She'll change her opinion of us."\par
"Wait till Hurd Applegate sees his bonds back. And wait till Chief Collig and Detective Smuff hear about it!"\par
So the Hardy boys gloated over their prospective return, but beneath it all they were thinking of what this discovery meant to the Bobinsons.\par
They reached the embankment, scrambled\par
The Searcfi 19S\par
over the fence, and made their way up the slope\par
antil at last they regained their motorcycles. Although they had only partly finished their lunch, they were too excited to eat any more^ so they stowed the remainder away in the basket, lashed the bag of treasure securely to Frank's carrier, and turned the motorcycles around.\par
"What a lucky chance for us that we decided to go down this road!" declared Frank "If we had done as we intended and circled around by Chet's place we would never have found the stuff!"\par
"And it's ten chances to one that neither of us would have thought of that water tower until his dying day."\par
The rest of their speculations were drowned by the roar of the motorcycles as the Hardy boys set out on their return to Bayport with fehe Tower treasure.\par
\i r \i0 xxm\par
applegate's compumbitt\par
curtain rolled down on the mystevy of <iiie Tower treasure that afternoon in the library of the Applegate home.\par
The Hardy boys had gone directly to their father with the story of the recovery of the k>ot, and Fenton Hardy had lost no time in acquainting Hurd Applegate with the facts. Between them, they arranged a little surprise for Chief Collig and Detective Smuff, as well as for Henry Eobinson. On the invitation of Hurd Applegate, the chief brought Mr. Eobinson to Tower Mansion, "to be faced with additional evidence," as Fenton Hardy suavely put it.\par
Chief Collig and Detective Smuff entered the library with their prisoner between thenL They had confidently anticipated that Mr. Applegate had discovered some new facts that would further serve to tighten the web about the unfortunate caretaker, and when they came into the room there was nothing at first to\par
oradicate this impression.\par
200\par
Adelia Applegate's Compliment 205'\par
\i Rnrd \i0 Applegate and Adelia Applegate sat by the huge library table, and with them were Mr. Hardy and his sons. Chief Collig did not at first notice the gunny sack lying on the table.\par
"Well, Mr. Applegate," said the chief, fanning himself, as usual, with his hat. "I brought along Mr. Robinson, just as you asked."\par
"Good. As I mentioned to you, there has been some new evidence in this case."\par
"I knew something would turn up," grunted Smuff.\par
"Not that any new evidence is needed, of course," declared the chief. "We got this fellow dead to rights, as it is. He ain't got a chance in the world. But still, it's just as good to make a real strong case of it."\par
"I'm afraid you don't understand me," went on Hurd Applegate. "This new evidence will \i clear \i0 Mr. Eobinson. And when he is cleared, I want him back in my employ again."\par
"Huh?" gasped Chief Collig.\par
"What's that you say?" exclaimed Smuff.\par
"The stolen stuff has been found."\par
"No!"\par
"Here it is," put in Fenton Hardy, getting ap and dumping the gunny sack upside down ,>n the table. There was a tinkle and clatter $s jewels came rolling out on the table, and\par
$02 The Tower Treasure\par
then there was a rustle of paper as the packets\par
of bonds followed.\par
"Where was it found?" asked the chief\'84 "This doesn't clear him. He probably hid it some place."\par
"The stuff was found just where Jackley said he hid it. In the old tower."\par
"But the old tower was searched high and low."\par
"There is more than one 'old tower'," went en Mr. Hardy. "Only we didn't happen to think of that at the time. It was found in the old water tower, down at the Junction, where Jackley used to work."\par
Chief Collig was speechless with surprise. He gazed at Smuff, whose jaw had dropped in astonishment.\par
"Who found it?" asked Smuff at last.\par
"These two lads," said Mr. Applegate, in\'bb dicating the Hardy boys. "They found it this morningo"\par
"Them kids?" scoffed Chief CoUig. "1 don't believe it."\par
"Well, there's the stuff to prove it,'" snapped Fenton Hardy.\par
"I've got my jewelry back, thanks to them,'* declared Adelia Applegate shrilly. ''They were smarter than the whole pack of you. If it wasn 't for them, the stuff would never have Ibeen found And I was the one who didn'fc\par
Adelia Applegate's Compliment 203\par
want to let them search the old tower and wh<$ spoke crossly to them. "Why, they're \i real \i0 detectives, both of them."\par
In all the talk and excitement that followed the clearing up of the Tower mystery, the Hardy boys received no compliment that they treasured so much as that remark of Adelia Applegate's.\par
"Well," said Chief Collig, scratching hit head, "I'll be bumped!"\par
He looked at Smuff.\par
"I'll be bumped, too," declared Smuff.\par
"This beats all," said the chief.\par
"It does," agreed his faithful satellite.\par
"Shut up!" snapped the chief. "Wbc asked you to say anything?"\par
"Nobody."\par
"Well, then, keep quiet. A fine detective you are! Why didn't you think of that! The old tower! Of course he meant the old water tower. What else could he have meant? But \i you \i0 wouldn't think of it. Not in a hundred years-you wouldn't think of it. What kind of a detective are you, anyway? Here was a case that was as simple as A B C and you couldn't think of it. You let yourself be beat by a couple of boys!"\par
Smuff looked properly ashamed of himself, although it was plain that he was struggling the temptation to ask the chief why \i he,\i0\par
204 The Tower Treasure\par
had not thought of the water tower, too. Buf he stifled the impulse and thereby doubtless saved the chief the trouble of dismissing him for impudence and insubordination.\par
"Yes," said Hurd Applegate, "the Hardy boys recovered the treasure. And I think you will admit that Mr. Robinson is cleared. Personally, I am satisfied that he knew nothing whatever of the theft and I want to apologize to him for any unjust suspicions I may have had. Mr. Eobinson, will you let me shake your hand!"\par
Trembling, Henry Eobinson stepped forward. His face had been illuminated by a glow of incredulous hope from the moment he learned of the discovery of the loot.\par
"Am I really cleared?" he asked. "I knew things looked bad against me all along. I hardly dared hope-"\par
"I guess you'll be let off now all right," said Chief Collig grudgingly.\par
"There will be formalities, of course," said Fenton Hardy. "But I'm pretty sure the prosecution won't continue. The discovery of this loot proves Bed Jackley's story was correct from start to finish."\par
"'But how about that nine hundred dollars!'1 demanded Smuff suspiciously.\par
Mr. Robinson straightened up.\par
"I'm sorry," he said, "but even yet I \i can\\\i0\par
Adelia Applegate's Compliment 205\par
explain that. I can in a few days, perhaps j ibut I've promised to keep silent about thai money. It's a private matter entirely.'-'\par
"I don't think we need bother about that," objected Hurd Applegate. "I've checked over the treasure and it's all there. All the bond\'bb and all the jewelry. There is nothing missing. As for the nine hundred dollars, why, that is Mr. Eobinson's own affair."\par
Reluctantly, Smuff subsided into silence.\par
"Will you come back into my employ, Mr. Bobinson?" asked Hurd Applegate. "Of course, I feel very keenly, because you were unjustly accused, and 1 want to make it up to you. If you will consent to come back to Tower Mansion as caretaker again I will increase your salary, and I '11 also insist that you accept back pay for the time you were away."\par
"Why," stammered Mr. Kobinson, "this is good of you, Mr. Applegate. Of course I'll eome back. I'll be glad to. It'll mean a lot to my wife and daughters-and to Perry. He'll be able to go back to school again."\par
"Good!" exclaimed Joe Hardy impulsively, slapping his knee. Then, finding that he had attracted attention to himself, he sank back into his chair, embarrassed.\par
"And as for the Hardy boys," proceeded Hurd Applegate, "seing they discovered the treasure-**\par
206 The Tower Treasure\par
"Real detectives," shrilled Adelia. "Real! (detect jycs, both of them! Smart lads!"\par
"Yes, they showed some real detective work; and I hope they grow up to follow in their father's footsteps. But, as I was saying, they discovered the treasure, so of course they will get the reward."\par
"A thousand bucks!" exclaimed Detective Smuff, in awe.\par
"Dollars, Mr. Smuff-dollars!" corrected Adelia Applegate severely. "No slang please, not in Tower Mansion."\par
"One thousand iron men!" declared Smuff, unheeding. "One thousand round, fat, juicy smackers for a couple of kids! And a real detective like me-I"\par
The thought was too much for him. He sank his head in his hands and groaned aloud.\par
Frank and Joe did not dare look at each other. They were finding it difficult enough to restrain their laughter without that.\par
"Yes, a thousand dollars," went on Hurt Applegate. "I'll write the checks now. Five hundred for each."\par
With that he took out his fountain pen, reached in a drawer of the table for a check book, and soon the silence was broken by the scratching of pen on paper. Hurd Applegate Wrote out two checks, each for five hundred dollars and these he handed to the boys. Frank\par
Adelia Applegate's Compliment\par
and Joe accepted them with thanks, folded! them up and put them m their pockets.\par
"And that, I think,'5 concluded Mr. Apple-gate, "finishes the mystery of the Tower robbery."\par
"Thanks to the Hardy boys!" chimed in hie aister. "Real detectives, both of them. I mus$ Svsk them up for supper some night."\par
CHAPTER XXTV\par
the last op the toweb \i cabs\i0\par
the discovery of the Tower Mansion treasure was a Bayport sensation for almost a week- and a week is a long time for any sensation to last, even in Bayport.\par
People said that they knew all along that Mr0 Bobinson was innocent of the theft, and went as far out of their way to be nice to him as feaey had gone out of their way to be unkind to him and ignore him when he was accused a>f crime.\par
People too, were loud in their praises of the Hardy boys, and everybody predicted a bright future for them and said they knew all along Shat the lads were bound to solve the mystery .if they kept at it long enough. All of this the feoys took with a grain of salt, as the saying its, for they knew that the public is fickle and as quick to condemn failure as it is to praise success.\par
Frank and Joe did not let the adulation tun Mieir heads.\par
208\par
The .Last of the Tower Case 209\par
"When we couldn't find the treasure everybody said we were just nuisances-little boys trying to play detective," laughed Frank, "Now that we have found it, all that is forgotten. The main thing is that we've proved to dad that we know how to keep our eyes and ears open."\par
"And we've got a thousand dollars between us."\par
"A mighty nice start for a bank account."\par
" I '11 say it is! I wish another mystery would come along."\par
"We can't expect to get a reward for every case we work on-and we can't expect to solve 'em all, either," Frank pointed out.\par
"We can't expect to get many cases to try our hand at. We're not professionals just yet."\par
"No, but we will be, some day."\par
This conversation took place as the Hardy boys were on their way up to Tower Mansion) about a week later. Adelia Applegate, who had taken a great fancy to the lads, in violent contrast to her dislike of them on the day they had gone to make a search of the \i old \i0 tower9 had invited them up to the Tower Mansion for supper.\par
She had also asked them to invite a number of their chums. So Slim Eobinson, Che$ Morton, Biff Hooper, Jerry OHlroyf Phi]\par
210 The Tower Treasure\par
and Tony Prito had all been invited by the brothers to attend.\par
When the Hardy boys reached the Mansion they found that the others had already ar\'bb rived.\par
"We're waiting for you," shrilled Miss Ap~ plegate, who was decked out in an ancient yellow gown with remarkable trimmings of black and red. "Everybody's hungry."\par
She soon led the way to the dining room, where a long table had been prepared for the boys. They gasped when they saw that array, and Miss Applegate beamed.\par
"I know you don't want an old woman like me watching you while you eat," she cried, "So go right ahead-and put your elbows on the table if you wish."\par
There was a scramble for places, as a servant came in with the soup, but Frank Hardy sprang to his feet.\par
"Three cheers for Miss Applegate!"\par
They were given with vociferous enthusiasm,, Miss Applegate blushed with pleasure, and as she left the room the Hardy boys and their chums were sitting down to a banquet the like of which they had never seen before. For more than half an hour they indulged in roast chicken, <srisp and brown, huge helpings of fluffy mashed potatoes, pickles, vegetables and salads, pies and puddings to suit every taste, and when\par
The Last of the Tower Case 211\par
last boy sank back in his chair with a happy sigh there was still food to spare.\par
"I never thought I'd see the day when I'd quit eating while there was still some chicken on the table," murmured Chet Morton, "but this is the day."\par
"We have the Hardy boys to thank for this spread," said Jerry. "Let's give 'em three cheers."\par
The boys roared out their "hip, hip, hurrah!" three times, while Joe and Frank looked acutely uncomfortable. They looked still more uncomfortable when Slim Robinson got up, pushing back his chair.\par
"I'd like to say something, fellows, if you don't mind."\par
"Three cheers for Slim!" yelled some one.\par
So the boys gave Slim three cheers, and he gulped and blushed crimson.\par
"Speech!"\par
The cry was taken up.\par
"Speech! Speech!"\par
"I'm not going to make any speech," he said, C*I only want to say something."\par
"Go ahead!"\par
"I'm not going to hand out any compliments to the Hardy boys."\par
Joe and Frank looked greatly relieved. They 8iad been afraid of being embarrassed by Slim's gratitude.\par
.212 The Tower Treasure\par
"Everybody knows what they've done and everybody knows what it means to me and to any family."\par
"You bet!"\par
"Sure!"\par
"But I just wanted to clear up one point on behalf of my father."\par
"Three cheers for Henry Eobinson! He's all right."\par
The three cheers for Mr. Bobinson were perhaps a little weaker than the others, but that was only because some of the boys were beginning to show slight signs of hoarseness by that time.\par
"It's about the nine hundred dollars that he got just about the time of the robbery. He couldn't explain it at the time and it looked bad against him."\par
"It doesn't matter where he got it," shouted Biff Hooper. "I'll bet he got it honestly anyway, and if any one else says different, just let him come outside."\par
No one else said differently.\par
"Yes, he got it honestly, of course," said Slim. '' The money was paid him by a man who owed it to him. But dad couldn't say anything about it because he promised not to. This man owed two other men besides my father, and \i those \i0 debts should have been paid first. He afraid the others would sue \ul him\ulnone  if\par
The Last of the Tower Case 21S\par
heard he had paid dad, so he made my father promise to say nothing. And when my dad makes a promise he keeps it."\par
The boys looked at one another. To tell the truth, few of them had thought of the affair of the nine hundred dollars, but now that it was recalled to them they realized that here was the final angle of the Tower Mansion mystery cleared up at last. They cheered Slim to the echo, they pounded on the table with their knives, and when Hurd Applegate came in to see what the racket was about they gave him three cheers and made him sit at the head of the table.\par
And that ended the affair of Tower Mansion, but it did not end the career of the Hardy boys as amateur detectives. They were soon to be called on to help solve another mystery, and the story of their adventures in this case will be told in the next volume of this series, entitled "The Hardy Boys: The House on the Cliff."\par
"Speech! Speech!" the boys were shouting to Hurd Applegate.\par
The old stamp collector got up, smiling.\par
"It's been a long time since there's been a crowd of boys in Tower Mansion," he said, 6"I've been in danger of forgetting that I was over young once myself. So I want you to come Iback-often, I want you to know that Tower Mansion is always open to the Hardy boys an3 their chums."\par
The Hardy boys looked at one another, as the crowd about the table broke into a yell of delight.\par
"He's a pretty good old scout after all, isn't he?" said Frank.\par
"You bet he is," replied his brother.\par
\par
\par
\par
THE END\par
THE TOWER TREASURE\par
BY FRANKLIN W. DIXON\par
No. 1 in the Hardy Boys series.\par
\par
}
 